now we're live 3 2 1 boom hello Annie
very nice to meet you I'm excited to
talk to you I'm super excited to talk to
you about several subjects but this one
thank you very much for this first
edition copy of your area 51 an
uncensored history of America's top
secret military base book I'm super
excited about this I heard through the
grapevine you're a fan I'm a freak when
it comes to this stuff do you what do
you think is going on up there I mean
same thing that's going on all over the
place when it comes to military secrets
which is stuff that you want to know
about very few people know about and
every now and then a journalist gets a
hint mm-hmm yeah do you think there's
any alien stuff up there I write in the
book all about the yeah yeah well tell
them last 12 pages you want me to well
what do you think so area 51 was this
secret test base where the CIA was
running a spy plane programs right so
interestingly my new book is about
ground branch guys on the ground
that's about air branch mm-hmm what we
were doing in the air and it was this
idea that we should spy on the enemy
okay and but if you go back in time why
area 51 really started you learn that it
was a base hidden inside of a base
nuclear weapons and it was all about
beating Stalin at his black propaganda
campaign since I write in the book hmm
to hoax Americans in a war of the
worlds' type scenario whereby little men
who looked like aliens would get out of
an aircraft and the government would go
crazy about it and then Stalin would say
look we have not only do we have
technology but better than you but we
have a better propaganda department than
you rule that Joe you got to read the
whole book this is like a this is a
tough opening you got me losing stuff a
lot but it's a good spot all right and
it's good spy it so Stalin just hired
short people what would he do all right
I'm gonna make you save that I'm gonna
make you earn yeah how's that
I mean you want me to talk about that
right now right off the bat why is it
I'm sweaty gonna get to it we're gonna
get to surprise kill vanish as well I
want to just yeah why does it make you
sweat oh my god it's such an incendiary
topic I mean people people want to
believe they're aliens right right okay
I mean I've spent five books dealing
with the mythology of area 51 which is
phenomenal in its own way because it
speaks so much to power to morality to
information to you know people's desire
to know what's going on and and the
government's desire to keep things
hidden so this topic is always coming up
because a lot of people want to believe
that there were aliens in that craft and
my source who I write about in the book
told me otherwise that they were
genetically you know that they let me
stop you right there because when you
say that craft what you mean is the
supposed UFO records had crashed in
Roswell New Mexico in 1947 that's what
you mean right
but that was never supposedly taken to
area 51 was supposed to be taken to
wright-patterson Air Force Base the
legend has it that Truman flew there to
meet them and right that's one legend
yeah so in my book I interview a man who
worked for the Atomic Energy Commission
who tells a different story tells the
story of receiving that craft at area 51
in 1951 which is why the base is called
area 51
oh and that inside the craft were humans
who had been altered surgically altered
to look like aliens in a plan for Stalin
to sort of twist
Truman's arm because at that time we had
the atomic bomb when Roswell happened we
had the atomic bomb and the Soviets did
not okay when you say humans that were
surgically altered to look like aliens
do you mean so this is 1951 so you're
talking about four years after the
supposed crash yes so what we have the
monkeys they kept the body the capital
body
in what formaldehyde yes and also
because the idea was and remember or I
can't say remember because you haven't
read the book yet right and I wrote this
book eight years ago hmm but it did
really impact a lot of my a lot of my
thinking and working on on you know
government secrecy projects because it
makes you really consider what a hoax
means and what it means to a population
of people and how the government begins
to work with disinformation versus cover
stories and all of that but going back
to answer your question that is what I
was told by the source that but how
reliable is this source this is a very
incendiary idea to rely upon one
individuals recollection of it which is
why the book went through the roof in
terms of people being upset about it I
mean were there oh my god I interviewed
79 CIA guys Air Force guys spy pilots
engineers I mean who's mad at you the
conspiracy theorists were mad at me
because they said this woman is bananas
they were aliens
well even if they weren't aliens right
there's also there's accounts that it
was some sort of a test vehicle and that
there were actually just dummies inside
their crash test dummies that they used
there's been a bunch of different
versions of it but the most compelling
version of the area of 51 alien myth to
me as Bob Lazar did you get into that
yeah he plays a huge role in area 51
I mean before Bob Lazar went public no
one even knew about area 51 people
people knew people it was it was common
folklore but there was no definitive
proof that there was something going on
over there other than some weird VHS
footage of things flying around the
desert that seemed to be behaving in a
way that modern aircrafts are not
totally capable of at least modern
piloted aircrafts are not totally
capable I mean which brings me to
another book I wrote called the
Pentagon's brain which you know sort of
off this idea was like wait a minute
what kind of technology is the
government capable of anyway we have a
whole department for that reason called
DARPA
which looks at weapon systems 25 years
out so the idea that you and I don't
know what the military is capable of in
the air underwater wherever it may be is
because we're not thinking 25 years out
and they are and they're developing
weapon systems the great weapon systems
of the future that's what they call them
right look how they developed the
stealth bomber Lincoln that was all out
in area 51 and groom Lake yes what do
you think of bob lazar story because bob
was our story what's it really there's
some fascinating aspects to it
but one of the most fascinating is some
of the things that he's said that people
said was horseshit it's told has been
proven to be true like one of the things
the the biometric reader that measured
the the length of the bones in your hand
and that they are unique as unique as a
fingerprint and you feel like what are
you talking about that this was
something they really did have and they
have photos of this thing now this is
something he talked about and they
claimed it was science fiction
I mean it's fascinating when someone
touches upon a subject that the
government does not want known about for
any reason mm-hmm and there is a
campaign to discredit that person yeah
there's no doubt that that happened to
him I mean it was remarkable and I write
about him in the book because if you
follow the logic that my source told me
that these were you know modified human
beings as part of a hoax and the reason
that I trust the source is because Joe
he told me that he also worked on the
program so he had like a burden to
unload right and so if you follow that
logic through then the bob was our story
is that Bob when Bob Lazar said I saw an
alien it looked like this it was small
it had big eyes it's yes those were the
jannat genetically I mean those were the
surgically modified humans that the
government was doing experiments on I
think Bob lazarre's exact quote was he
walked by a window and he looked in and
he saw two agents that were it looked
they were looking down at something that
was very small and looked humanoid but
he didn't know if it was a dummy or
anything and he wasn't even supposed to
be looking in there and it was a brief
like one second look
he is bounced around in his head back
and forth has it ever occurred to you
that maybe the guy who gave that
information did work there but is also
feeding you horseshit well the source
was a major player in the Manhattan
Project he went on and worked in the
Atomic Energy Commission I mean there's
a wing of a museum named after him
his accolades his awards were so
extraordinary it would please him I've
never said his name although you know I
will say this well you're giving her
away give him away a lot of the stuff he
recently died and he did give me
permission to tell his full story after
he died and I'm circling around that I'm
circling around that but he was
absolutely a you know with the queue
clearance that's what you have when you
have access to nuclear secrets so if
someone has a queue clearance for
decades and they're full of garbage you
really have to ask my god should this
guy have a queue clearance I mean that's
reverse engineering his credibility but
I think you should read the whole book
because you know it's shocking what he
says but it does make sense if you can
get through four hundred pages of you
know the CIA's idea about information
disinformation why we need to cover
things up why that's why I'm asking if
you think that he's he might have been
lying to you I don't believe it
what's elaboration no I don't believe I
don't believe so you think that the
Stalin that the Russian government
definitely did surgically alter people
to make them look like aliens
I believe were their images I believe
what he told me did you see photos no
but here's the rub ready okay when I was
writing another book called phenomena
which dealt with the CIA and the
Pentagon's use of psychics okay mm-hmm
over decades I mean this goes back
everything I write about pretty much
goes back to post-world War with no
remote viewing stuff yes yes and it's
all about government u.s. government
takes pole position after World War two
and we now need to always be ahead of
the curve we must lead
we can never get beaten by the Russians
now it's China okay so the psychic
program had a lot of people who really
believe in aliens or you know other
intel intelligence from other worlds and
when I was writing the phenomena book I
learned a whole bunch of new information
about how upset they were with my story
because they Baloo the source by the way
they knew the source and they believed
that he was fed misinformation
so these are two sides of the coin which
are super interesting I think if you can
look at them with your own biased turned
off and not have a desired outcome I
want to believe this I don't want to
believe this you know speaking of I want
to believe you know I was working on a
project with Chris Carter though who is
the x-files creator and the one person I
took the source that I wanted to meet
the source was Chris Carter and I we
went out there together and sat with him
and met him and it was well because the
source had never even heard of the
x-files but it was like oh I know
probably they talked about baseball you
know really see I don't have a desired
outcome I mean I would love it if aliens
were real but when someone starts
talking about disinformation and
propaganda campaigns but they want you
to believe them right but don't listen
I'm here telling you the truth I mean
you're telling you if you I'm not saying
I'm telling you the truth at all that's
why we're not you know let's wait for an
hour three because it's too explosive
people have such a horse in the race
yeah already they with aliens you think
well I mean maybe you are neutral I
don't know I know I'm neutral
yeah I will listen I'd absolutely want
aliens to be real 100% it'd be
interesting yes I'm not neutral but I am
neutral in my perceptions and when I
look at things I go hmm I don't know
about that me too I want to see a
picture like what are these what do
these guys look like I mean what did
they do to them did he describe what
kind of surgical alterations I stayed
with a source I mean after the book
published
I would go
visit him we'd sit in a Chinese
restaurant and eat and talk and I would
try to get a droplet of information out
of him oh my god he avoided I mean look
here's another thing when the book came
out his wife of 65 years knew it was him
okay and I went out to Las Vegas and sat
there in a room with the source and his
wife and she said tell me this isn't
true tell me you made this all up to her
husband mm-hmm and he said it's the
truth I mean that's a triangular version
of getting at the truth but again to
reiterate I believe he believes what he
told me was the truth that was the truth
he was told I think there's certain
agents that think it's fun to fuck with
reporters and journalists and make
things up I really do and I think
especially when they're talking about
secret information that they were sworn
to protect and then all of a sudden they
want to talk to someone that they don't
even know on the sneak tip let's meet at
a diner I'm gonna tell you every that
snot how we met well I mean yeah I mean
whatever you met yeah well we met
because I was interviewing nuclear
weapons engineers who were setting off
nuclear bombs in area 51 Marshall I mean
in the Nevada Test Site area 12 area 23
and they all said to me you've got to
talk to the top engineer of all this
weaponry and they gave me his name and
we talked for days and hours about
nuclear weapons and then in one
conversation he began to cry and told me
this story that I was like what why is
he crying he was crying because he
participated in our version of the human
experiments because what the Russians do
we do look I've written five books about
that we altered people to make them look
like alien according to him we had a
small program in 1951 where we wanted to
see how the Russians did what they did
how they made human beings look like
this
it's what they do take prisoners or
something like what who they alter he
said they were handicapped
oh Jesus and he told me that he
participated in this so again I mean
unless you have someone that lost their
mind at age 90 and was willing to tell
their wife of sixty five years I lost my
mind so he's saying that he participated
in something that altered handicapped
children when you say handicapping me
like Down syndrome or something like
that and they made them look like aliens
and then killed them
like what did how did they what did they
do with this this is where we get into
drops of information oh man but what I
can say is he had a grandchild that was
born that way and and the grandchild did
not live long the grandchild died and it
made him feel so guilty about what he
had done hmm that he felt compelled to
confess if you will and I remember
saying to him why are you telling me
this why don't you tell a priest and he
said a priest would judge me and I can
tell you won't why wouldn't you judge
him I judge them well I guess that's why
I'm a born journalist Joe because I
really try not to judge people I mean my
new book surprise kill vanish it's about
assassins it's about people who work for
the CIA who do what needs to be done on
the ground in the name of national
security I don't judge them this is why
we you know what's really at issue here
is morality right yeah I mean can I tell
you how I got the idea for this book
sure but let me before we go any further
that's oh yeah was he saying that there
have never been any encounters with
alien spacecraft
he was totally neutral about aliens he
had nothing to do with aliens he could
have cared less he didn't watch the
x-files what was his take on Bob Lazar
his take on Bob Lazar was that he
probably saw something that the
government had an extension of the
program I mean he didn't know that was
speculative we didn't talk about that I
mean you know other than inference
he was very limited in his and the
information that he would get out but I
mean I used 79 sources in that book that
all went on the record in name and he
was the one anonymous source because but
like I said you know he told me after he
died that
I could tell the whole story are you
going - I might you might come back
write another book if you give me a
break and back off the subject I might
come back and tell you and your audience
is your book I want to promote your book
I know you want to promote your new book
but I want to promote this book as well
I mean I'm teasing you right but it's
it's like it's an astonishing story and
I think the best line of all is that
people that read about that in the very
end of what we did they go I wish they
were aliens hmm
so Stalin created some sort of a craft
that mimicked you're gonna read it
that's what you're gonna do the rest of
the afternoon nope I'm gonna come back
and we're talking I think we should
probably get into this a little okay
come on with a question okay I'm used to
asking the question are you oh right
it's a journalist yeah
now Stalin and the Russians created
something that mimicked a UFO something
that looked like it would be from
another planet is that what they did a
mothership mm-hmm
in those days drones were there was a
mothership and a drone was attached to
it and it was jettisoned off okay mm-hmm
so in those days well in 1947-48 well
they didn't I mean that was drone
technology then okay right so there's a
mother a mother craft like her aircraft
and then the drone is like a small
aircraft under it and it gets jettisoned
off and that was what the craft was it
was jettisoned off so that so stolen
actually according to the source invaded
our airspace which was the deep
embarrassment to Truman so he invaded
our airspace and then let this drone
crash land on the ground with these
things that turned out to be human
they looked like aliens but they turned
out to be humans that were manipulated
surgically to look like yes as a way to
and remember I mean not remember but
where where this was was you know very
close to a nuclear weapons base to our
White Sands military base I mean this is
like not a place you want the Russians
to be able to get near you know I mean
what was interesting is at area 51 we
then went out and mimicked all of those
one of our early drones was a mimicry of
that
it was the detour there was a m21 which
was the mothership and a d21 which was
the daughter ship so all of them was it
wirelessly like we do now
no no then it was like there was a pilot
in the mother ship and they kind of let
it go and it flew off I mean there's
incredible stories of what the CIA was
able to do out there
at area 51 with their air branch you
know the technology they're always ahead
of Technology well what bob lazar did
film that was really shocking was the
film the filming of these drones flying
around and performing these really crave
you have seen those videos in the 80s it
gets really crazy with what they're able
to do and what they're but I mean why I
like looking at history is because you
can see the progression you know you see
how science evolves you know bit by bit
and then there's these great
breakthroughs because what the
government is always looking for is
called a revolution in military affairs
mm-hmm right and that's certainly what
drone technology did later on as drones
became developed after the Vietnam War
so in the 1980s when Bob Lazar was
filming all this stuff you think this
was similar to the technology that we
see publicly described today in terms of
like what drones are capable of sure I
mean that's what we had something like
that back then there you know when when
the f-117 was revealed during the first
Gulf War that aircraft was being
developed for 20-25 years out at area 51
actually at area 52 was where they had
it set up to develop that stealth
technology think about and what was
amazing talk about keeping secrets they
had something like 10,000 people working
on that hmm no one knew about it that
story was never broken by the press not
by anyone it just suddenly appeared in
the Gulf War and took out Saddam
Hussein's you know facilities hmm that's
a revolution in military affairs what
becomes interesting is then it becomes
obsolete because now everybody knows
about it and everybody's gonna mimic
that and now you have to have a new
weapon system and
that's the military-industrial complex
so was this drone aircraft that was
released from the mothership was this
capable of autonomous flight or was it
just they just threw it out there and
let it crash the latter right and
remember that information
I am very limited to that's why it's
wrong pages it's the source gave me
these little bits of information which I
felt I felt was important to include
because it speaks to the big issue
why is area 51 classified I mean now
it's not President Obama was the first
president to actually say area 51
publicly some people say because of my
book
all right meaning it was out the secret
was out but before that I went through
10,000 pages of documents from the
National Archives and every place you
see the word area 51 was actually
redacted right why would you keep that
so secret I mean all the guys that I was
interviewing say they could call it you
know groom lake they could call it the
test facility they could call it
paradise ranch but they couldn't say
area 51
why and the source said well because we
did this horrible program out there and
the government doesn't want anyone to
know about that ever I mean their
stories of like somebody asking Bill
Clinton you know about area 51 him going
white I mean human experiments who wants
to be part of those horrible but the
human experiments were were they limited
to this mimicry of the Russian
experiments where they were trying to
get people to look like aliens or
there's something else going on oh my
goodness I mean you read now the
declassified documents tell us how many
different human experiments were going
on around nuclear weapons okay horrible
experiments where they were subjecting
people to radiation because they wanted
to know they felt well it's more
important to know what happens to people
than to not know and so they would take
groups of people that say had cancer or
something and test them so there's no
doubt that the government has
experimented on humans it's just is that
something that is wise to make public
and you know there's two sides of the
coin on that I mean you you when you
reveal these kind of things when you
write about them I mean people get
really upset
and you know vilify the government
partially with good reason and partially
it's like bad for national security so I
think that's the justification on the
part of the Defense Department to keep
things secret that make sense
Wow it's uh it's an interesting take
that I never thought of before but if I
was stalling and I was trying to air
quotes fuck with the Americans that's
maybe where I would do it hey man you
got a problems aliens they're coming and
there was if people it's hard for people
that live in 2019 especially if you're
young to really imagine a world not only
without the internet but with two
television channels right and radio
which was where people got all their
information from I mean was there two
channels how many channels were in 1947
maybe three maybe three I mean it was
Radio in World War two right yeah mostly
radio and newspapers and that's where
people were getting their information
and there was a mass hysteria where
people were absolutely terrified that we
were going to be invaded which is why
when Orson Welles War of worlds which
when they released it when they did it
on the air they were very clear that
this is going to be a reading of Orson
Welles war of worlds book or that HD
Welles excuse me
war right was HG Wells book and Orson
Welles read it yes and when they were
talking about this on the radio a lot of
people missed that part
right and so as the radio went on as the
broadcast went on people were tuning in
later in the day it erupted in mass
hysteria people were freaking out
hundreds of thousands of people really
did think that it was and it was also
something that was recreated in other
countries I don't know if you know that
they did that in other countries in
different languages when they thought
saw how cute it worked in America and so
you see yeah I can see the logic I mean
at first it sounds absurd and it's
ridiculous and that's why I was sweating
because it's like I know Ryan right but
when you think it through and I
challenge you to read the whole book
because you start piecing together these
various ideas and disinformation becomes
less vague and more specific and you go
that's how it works and you begin to see
how people's perception and how they're
easily manipulated factors into national
security
just like you just described Stalin knew
about that he was a master he was the
master of propaganda he invented it I
mean he didn't invent it but he invented
it in a you know on the political stage
to be used to mess with another
country's perception of things think of
what he did with brainwashing right okay
so like in the 50s and this is
journalist you know said so there was a
journalist who was putting out stories
about brainwashing and there is this
idea which is well taken that
totalitarian governments brainwash
people and this became a big code word
it was introduced into the American
lexicon in 1950 well then were in the
Korean War our pilots start getting shot
down they're put on TV by the communists
saying terrible things about America the
American pilots and suddenly I was like
they've been brainwashed it was very
convenient to have that story so these
things work part and parcel and you've
got all kinds of smart people behind the
scenes
knowing this looking at it examining it
and using it to their advantage to stay
where in the pole position that's the
goal of the US government
so the propaganda that we did that sort
of copied Stalin's that we're kind of
playing catch-up in that sense I mean
we're playing catch-up then we're ahead
behind it's always a it's a game it's I
mean you're a competitor you know this
that's a crazy thing to do to make a
fake spaceship and just let it slam into
the ground with a bunch of people that
you cut up to look like aliens did he
say specifically what kind of
modification they made to people that
made them look like aliens I got trips
treated in those twelve come on with
this twelve pages I'm telling you that
because you're asking me these questions
that as if I spent I mean look I did
spend literally hundreds of hours with a
source we sat there and talked about
everything and I would try to squeeze
out just like you're trying to squeeze
out of me and that's what I'm saying
read it because I literally tell you
everything that there is I think what's
most interesting about the sort
and why I might come back and talk to
you about it and tell you who he is on
your show is because because of his
backstory hmm right why he did what he
did how he wound up in the Manhattan
Project it sounds like he was probably
Jewish from Germany no morality talk to
me about morality I want to talk about
why we can't talk about certain things
well while we're what you were saying
before about being a competitor the
United States is competitive obviously
and when you're playing the ultimate
game which is war you have to be very
careful about what you reveal and what
you don't reveal and this is where the
conversation about surprise kill vanish
comes in because the CIA using these
covert operations to assassinate people
and whether or not that should be
allowed or not allowed whether it's good
or bad whether it's necessary whether
it's like if you want people to be safe
over here there's certain people you got
to take out and sometimes you just can't
follow the rules and why why are we not
supposed to know about that should we
know about that the way the story
started for me I'm at my house in 2009 a
source is you know calls me up he says
I'm on my way back from the Middle East
gonna pop by the house and say hi he
brings me a challenge coin that says
Kabul Afghanistan State Department I'm
thinking okay he is not a diplomat I
mean he's weapons trained at the time my
boys were young there are lots of GI
Joes in the garden and they had little
weapons right and the source is showing
them about the weapons and they're like
so into it cuz they know he's military
trained and then he says if it's okay
with your mom and dad I'll show you some
weapons the boys are like please so he
sets up this sniper rifle in the living
room and I live up in the hills and you
can look across the canyon through this
scope he set up and I can see the veins
on a leaf across the canyon and I
thought okay so now I know what he was
doing in Kabul Afghanistan he's taking
out al-qaeda with this mm-hmm
there's another case on the ground that
he never opens
and when the boys go off I say to him
what's in that and he said he opens it
up and inside there's a knife and it's
serrated and I said what's that for
immediately realizing you know my
naivete and he says to me sometimes a
job requires quiet so why that became
interesting to me was because of my own
thoughts and perceptions about what he
had told me in other words I could I
could deal with him with a sniper rifle
I could me like okay that's what he does
but the knife gave me pause I was like
is he slitting someone's throat is it in
the ribs and I thought why is it that I
am willing to accept sort of the
clinical nature of a sniper rifle but I
can't I'm uncomfortable with that
close-up hand-to-hand killing and that
led me to surprise kill vanish because
that was the motto of the precursor
agency of the CIA it was called the OSS
the Office of Strategic Services their
motto was surprise kill vanish because
they would jump out of aircraft land
work with their french partners and kill
Nazis with a you know a knife to the
throat and I thought okay that's
considered okay because they were Nazis
right but we can't we're not supposed to
do that anymore in this world we live in
why and I spent the whole this whole
book researching and reporting is about
that sort of conundrum if you will that
moral puzzle you know why do we why do
we differentiate you know and who are
they willing to do that to where do they
draw that line like I'm sure you're
aware of the story of Jamal khashoggi
the journalist who was assassinated by
someone some group of people and that
they entered into the Turkish embassy
and they whacked him and chopped him up
and carried him out in boxes and it's an
international as well as a huge incident
right
supposedly was ordered by who was it
supposed to lure by the head of Saudi
Arabia yeah MBS Mohammed bin Salman I
mean that's the idea is that their head
of state wanted him killed because he
was a threat because he was a reporter
because he's writing some things yeah
and that they this is how they did it
yeah I mean and there's that's a great
question because what you're saying is
like okay so but we all think of that as
reprehensible right right right
why you know cuz because he's a
journalist and on our side he's
delivering information to people but the
government of Saudi Arabia disagreed
they liked that information is our
information he's a threat by releasing
it yes he's a threat to our livelihood
yes yeah and who decides who is a threat
I mean a lot of this book is about who's
on the kill list I mean there is an
actual kill if they're always husband
and the euphemisms involved I mean I
write history as I said so Eisenhower
called his assassination program health
alteration I mean literally in the
declassified documents there is health
all three she had a health alteration
committee whoa Kennedy had an executive
action committee that's also cleaner
right guess what Reagan's was called
super Wonder Boy power up close
pre-emptive neutralization preemptive
neutralization Wow why do they keep
switching the names for it they're
burying the information right and they
keep switching around the they switch
around who has authority to you know say
yes let's go ahead and put this guy on
the kill list I mean that was
fascinating I mean I interviewed a guy
named John Rizzo who was a decades-long
CIA attorney I was stunned that he was
willing to talk to me and he explained
to me how a presidential finding also
called a memorandum of notification
works that gives the president the
authority to put an individual on the
kill list that job is then given to the
CIA's paramilitary army an op
or they're assassins because the CIA
works under a code called title 50 of so
it makes it legal whereas the Defense
Department works under what's called
title 10 so in other words and they
can't their rules of engagement are
totally different so the misnomer is
like oh the SEALs killed bin Laden well
they were seals trained but that was a
CIA mission because Pakistan is a
sovereign nation and the military can't
kill people in countries were not at war
with so those guys all became
essentially CIA operators for the night
whoa right and if you look at
photographs as I have seen you'll notice
that they have no markings on their
outfits so that if the job went south
it'd be like I don't know who these guys
are and if you look back at Vietnam
photos of the Mac V SOG teams which I
also write about in surprise kill vanish
because that's the precursor of that you
see no markings right that way you can
go into you can go behind enemy lines
you can go into Laos you know in the
Vietnam War you can go now you can go
into Pakistan what I learned reporting
this book is we're in 134 countries
doing title 50 operations think about
that government wants that to be kept
secret so in all those countries they're
doing things that don't fall under the
normal letter of the law not yes not
under the rules of engagement of the
military but the CIA works at the
president's behest that that was one
thing that really blew my mind to report
to research to understand
I talked to forty two guys who have
direct access to this who are in this
world you know from the knuckle draggers
on the ground as they call themselves to
the lawyer at CIA senior intelligence
staff that's the equivalent of a general
at the CIA
those guys explaining to me Annie this
is how it works you know and again to
your question well why why does someone
get to know that
why does the government want why do they
allow that information out is super
interesting and I believe that has to do
with a certain climate we're in right
now about military might right in other
words what the CIA does is called tercio
Optio it's the third option you've got
the first option is diplomacy second
option is war
so if diplomacy is not working and war
is unwise you go to the third option
which is the CIA's paramilitary and
they're in a hundred and how many
country 134 do you well if you wonder
why the military budgets so big that's
what it is folks gotta feed those folks
well work I mean what happened and you
as a competitor would be fascinated by
the kind of training they do and what
they do I mean so many of these
infiltration techniques are
mind-boggling you know they've got halo
jumping which you know about right where
they high altitude low opening so they
jump out they you know freefall down
terminal velocity pull the ripcord
really low so they're not detected by
radar and then they meet up with a team
on the ground and go do what they do
and they also have hey-ho which is high
altitude high opening and that way you
can fly over airspace where we're
allowed and float into let's say a
country like Iran and land gather your
team and do what you have to do hmm but
like so much of what I report I get
information like that and then I ask a
million questions like you've asking me
and it's like I can't talk about that
that's classified hmm you don't you
you're a journalist so you're trying not
to judge mm-hmm but is it your belief
that this is a good thing for America
meaning President having a third option
well I mean I write in the book that
that's in the prologue after I tell that
story about the source with a knife I
say I wanted to know and that exact
question like is this a good thing and
my answer at the end after its complex
not to be vague but it is really complex
is also that well if you're gonna take
that pole position you must accept
rivalry right mm-hmm
and also after talk do I think it's a
good thing after talking to a lot of
twenty-year-old soldiers who come back
from the war theater missing a limb with
intense PTSD and who essentially serve
as cannon fodder I would say my opinion
right for the Pentagon that's the second
option war
the 42 guys that I interviewed you know
they're like send me they are a
professional they are Tier one operators
they're Green Berets they're seals their
Delta they retire they join the CIA yeah
so they're like professionals at what
they do and they're saying I want
someone has to do this job we've been
doing this since the end of World War
two I want to do it so do I think it's
better I mean I think that that concept
speaks to choice right because I'm not
so sure that the 20 year olds know what
they're in for
and the 40 year olds know what they're
in for and are willing to do it so that
well also the difference between a
specialized trained individual with a
very specific task versus someone who is
sort of following orders and at the
front of the line yeah right I mean and
also has a you know a lot of times I
talk to these young kids who go to war
and they tell me one of the fascinating
detail is that they talk about movies
that they see and whether it's Saving
Private Ryan or Black Hawk Down even
right where the outcome is not
necessarily great but they talk about
the romanticization of war and of
camaraderie and a brotherhood that comes
from that and then they have their
experience and some of that does give
them that sense but not always whereas
the operators are much more about
you know getting the job done that's
what I was fascinated by I mean these
guys are really clear they're their
competitors
they're like top tier competitors they
have a job they do it they get it done
and they ask for the next job
so is the oversight when it comes to
choosing whether or not this operation
takes place or not is it
do they have moral guidelines do they
have ethical or moral guidelines where
they say like this is the president is
requesting that this person get taken
out the Chiefs of Staff whoever it is is
that do they have to make a an ethical
distinction you mean or they like kill
him nicely like don't make it over this
do they decide like does this make sense
or like what if the president is like
Rosie O'Donnell she's been talking shit
take her out you know well I mean that's
you know that's a big issue but what I
try to write in what I try to report in
surprise kill vanish is the idea that
the people we take out maybe are bad
guys right one one guy write about his
che guevara okay because che is often
portrayed in the press as you know this
amazing hero and that he and we you know
I don't know if you know but he was he
was killed by the Bolivian Rangers but
it was a CIA operation and I interview
the man in charge of that operation in
Surprise Cal vanished his name was Felix
Rodriguez ok long-serving CIA
paramilitary officer so but I also
report why the President to your
question wanted Che Guevara dead you
know he was really advocating for
nuclear war and I and I shared it revoir
oh yes I mean he spoke publicly about
you know if if we have to have an atomic
war the Cuban paraphrasing the Cuban
people will be happy to have sacrificed
themselves that I mean che was also che
killed anyone who betrayed him he killed
he writes about it in his Diaries as I
write in the book right so but on the
morality question who decides I don't
have that answer but I will tell you
what I did
I went with my main source Billy wha-hoo
he's a 89 now and he was he's been with
the CIA for 60 years okay
I mean he went and he and I went to Cuba
for him to do a halo jump with che
guevara son so we were a guest of the
man whose father was killed by the CIA
okay and we had this really interesting
discussion in the cigar club where che
and Castro you know smoke cigars and
plotted the downfall of the United
States and that's what I try to give
readers a sense of the long lens of
history how time changes all things and
maybe leave with them them with this
idea which they can come to their own
conclusions about what you asked me of
is it right or is it wrong because
really what you might ask is is it
necessary mmm right I mean I could
moralize right wrong but it would just
be my opinion but when you see I went
Billy wall and I also try out travel to
Vietnam because he was supposed to kill
he was tasked to kill the top commander
of the North Vietnamese Army a guy named
general shop and law didn't kill shop
and we had this incredibly this terrible
mission that went awry that I write
about in the book in the Vietnam War so
50 years later law and I go to visit the
son of general giap are sitting there in
shops home talking about these same
issues right and my conclusion of that
again is not is it right or wrong but is
it necessary I mean we have these wars
we keep having these wars is it
necessary yeah what do you think well I
mean my opinion is that the Defense
Department is far too concerned with
vast weapons systems of the future which
is its mission statement of its science
department and so you create what some
at the Pentagon
call a self licking ice cream cone or
the military-industrial complex hmm
there's a lot built into there's a lot
to be said about that and there's also
probably some concern about other
countries getting ahead of us so you
have to do what you have to do if your
if your job is to protect the American
people and to keep the military strong
you just have to operate with that
premise that there's a bunch of other
people out there that are doing the same
thing for their country and trying to
take down the United States and we got
to stay ahead of the curve and make
human eating robots that can shoot
missiles absolutely I mean when I was
reporting the Pentagon's brain which is
about DARPA and I was sitting there with
scientists who are working on limb
regeneration right or oh right
yeah what do they do oh my god they have
these little salamanders I mean they're
showing that salamanders can regenerate
their limbs and so human their idea
they're down at UC Irvine they have this
incredible lab and they're funded by
DARPA because that's where the money it
comes from right and their idea is that
humans should be able to regenerate
their limbs and you know 50 years out
we'll be doing that and they're working
on the science for that well that's the
same science that allows for cloning and
so in our discussions cuz that's how I
try to report is like really ask people
what they think about future
consequences and they said to me your
exact question which is well Annie what
if one day we wake up and we find out
that China has cloned the first human or
a dark horse like Saudi Arabia you know
the American people are gonna freak out
and go where the hell was DARPA why
aren't we ahead of the curve so it's
that there's a chicken and the egg
problem with that of like well we have
to stay ahead we're we're on top we want
to be on top it's kind of terrifying I
mean everything I write about is
terrifying well you have to take ambien
I'm more worried about now god no I'm
I'm more worried about coming on your
show and being asked tough questions
when I am about no excusing you but then
I am about I mean this stuff is
informative you know it's informative
and it's a longer conversation that's
why I think what you do with your
podcast is awesome because people can
really
get into the thinking about things right
they can really and they can move away
from their own preconceptions their own
biases they're bringing into it and
they're stopping for a minute and
they're going what do I really think
about that and to really think about
something you need information yeah an
information can be boring unless it's
interestingly presented through
conversation through you know
uncomfortable conversation well also
uncompromised conversation where you
don't have a certain time period that
you have to smush something into like a
four-minute segment on CNN or something
I mean that's impossible what's so
difficult I see people have these
conversations about books or something
that are trying to accomplish very
nuanced subject that they're trying to
discuss and you know there's another
person other sides like that's not true
and they're shouting over each other and
like boy that just the pressure the
people have to understand that people do
understand but you have to reiterate it
and it has to be kind of drilled in your
head you're when you're pressuring
someone and and you're yelling back and
forth you're not even going to get a
good version of whatever this person's
argument is like you should have the
best version I want like if I'm gonna
have a disagreement with someone I want
the best version of their their point
and I want them to get it out with no
pressure I want to help them get it out
I'd like to reiterate it with them I
like to give them plenty of time I want
to know how you think I know what you're
thinking about I would love to talk to
these guys
I would love to loved it but the thing
is like you they can't tell you a lot of
this there's a Ramin for national
security reasons there's a lot of
reasons I'm sure if they want to keep
their job and stay alive they have to
they have to shut the fuck up they can't
just talk about what they do and how
they do it and how and decisions that
maybe they made that were uncomfortable
where they killed somebody they didn't
think maybe needed to die yeah but but
that's the reporters job or at least my
job so in other words okay so I go to
visit Billy wad his home and I knew I
heard stories about he's this legendary
operator right and he's also what's
called a singleton so he works alone
and when I was added to call them
singleton right which is like he's got
one guy giving him orders oh he's out
there oh my god I mean Billy wah is
right I mean back can we back up first
I'm gonna give you this room ok so
here's this guy he's in he's in Vietnam
and he's part of what was called Mac V
SOG right and they're doing cross border
missions into Laos and it's so dangerous
it's like it's a CIA program that SOG
stands for studies and observations
group I mean it's supposed to sound like
a bunch of guys in Ivy League tower with
bow ties right but the guys on the
ground called it suicide on the ground
that's how dangerous a hundred percent
of the people had casualties right Billy
wah has nine Purple Hearts from the work
he did nine okay I mean they get shot
they bandaged themselves up they're you
know they're up in an aircraft because
they're limping instead of on the ground
you know viewing the missions the
warrants everybody's furious with the
government with the military there's no
room for special operators I mean
everything it's called the Time of
Troubles by them Billy was working in
the post office
and he gets this knock you know and it's
like he's back in the CIA now in 1977 so
he was out for he was out it was over
again I mean he was he was you know it
was over that was it he was working in
the post office right
I mean a team needs you I mean but he
said the most incredible thing to me
because he said I and he doesn't ever
talk about fear and he said there was
only one time my whole life I've ever
been afraid and that was in the post
office whoa
because he was getting back into it
probably had like recycled his mind and
put himself in a place I'm just a
civilian now and he said I'm gonna wind
up being one of those old guys drinking
beer at the end of the bar talking about
the war right and instead he gets called
up by the CIA and they send him to Libya
in 1977 and his cover is that he's
training Qaddafi's paramilitary guys in
paramilitary
tactics I mean that's the beginning of
his career and it goes on all the way
until we were in Cuba I think was
actually some kind of a mission because
it was like what are we doing here in
Cuba doing infiltration and exfiltration
techniques allegedly with J Guevara son
but in any event you know when I went to
visit Billy well the first time he's got
this you know he's got certificates and
awards and medals all over the walls of
his home but there's one framed item
that I'm looking at and it's a knife and
there was a seal from the CIA and it
says in appreciation to the assassin mmm
and I said Billy tell me about that and
he said you know I can't talk about that
so I you know stayed with him for two
years now I mean stayed we conversed we
traveled I interviewed him you know
hundreds of hours and I kept asking him
about that award and he kept saying you
know I can't talk about that but as I
write in the book he couldn't talk about
it but others did so that's how a
reporter works you get introduced to
enough of his friends enough of the
others who are involved you make sure
they're a legitimate source and you
begin to find out what he can't talk
about and that's what I report in the
book and that is very explosive because
President Bush right after 9/11 created
what was called a stalker team and
ironically you know people have this
idea that we've been you know sending a
team of assassins around the world in
NATO partner countries and that what I
learned had never happened until right
after 11:00 with his stalker team 12 men
and actually one or two women the femme
fatale and they would go after bad guys
and they adopted the term from the
Reagan era so it was called pre-emptive
neutralization who was who were the
women there's always one woman on the
team that's what I was told by the guy
who is in charge of the stalker team and
bars are well I mean
he gave me this great example I don't
report in the book but I'll tell you
right he said so women have a different
presentation and this like he told me a
story of a woman sitting on a bench you
know in embracing a man right and no one
thought anything of it and it allowed
her to spy on someone in a manner that
would a man would it would have drawn
attention and then the stalker team
could go so what their job would be to
is to conduct surveillance of a target
and they call it making book they have
to make book on that individual so they
know exactly where the guy is and
they're waiting on the president's
orders whether or not they should take
action and you know that's where the
that's where the information stops right
I say well then what happens well that's
all we can say Annie that must be so
exciting like to live like that
like all cloak-and-dagger gotta be so
exciting like it's I would take that
over a cubicle every day of the week I
really would well you might get killed I
might die in that damn cubicle too
I think it's why so many of these
operators stay in it long term right did
you ever see the television show the
Showtime show what the hell's are called
with the fuck's that show called that
the homeland yes yes well that's like
the whole premise like she's completely
addicted to being in that world
adrenaline I mean that's what that is
imagine jumping out of an aircraft
landing in you know behind enemy lines
and then your work begins and then you
have to get out that's why surprise kill
vanish I mean you got to surprise your
way in kill them and then get out and if
you're getting in they frame your knife
and give you a plaque Jamie I'm gonna
get you a knife it's an appreciation of
the assassins you're a killer it's just
such a crazy way to live your life but
you know I'll take that over a boring
life I would take that over a boring
like
every day of the week well it's like the
Pink Floyd line you know living life of
quiet desperation I mean that just
terrifies that's the rose quote that
most men live lives of quiet desperation
it's one of my favorite quotes ever
because it's true it's not Jim that guy
you just you're just in this world where
you just can't wait to just run away and
how do people get stuck there how do you
think they get stuck there bills bills
like financial thing hmm yeah bills and
commitment you have an apartment you
have to pay for you have a car you least
you have a wife that you have to feed
you have a child do you have to raise
you have to you have your mortgage you
have your this you have your that and
that's where it all comes from where do
you think opportunity plays into that
well the opportunity takes place usually
when you're young and you don't have any
responsibilities though that's when you
have your options well your options are
severely limited the more you gather
responsibilities like if I had as a 51
year old father of three married man
pays taxes has a house and a mortgage
and a business and all that jazz if I
had to quit everything now and struggle
the way I struggled as a stand-up
comedian it would never work but the
only way I could be this person now is
if I took that chance when I was 21 when
I was dead broke and had my cars
repossessed and all that stuff that's
the only way you you ever get where you
want to go you have to you have to take
a path it's dangerous and most people
want to take the safe path and the safe
path leaves you stuck in quiet
desperation almost every time it's hell
it's hell you're selling insurance or
some other shit they care zero about but
can people just make that change I mean
you can't believe it you have to plan it
out the way you can change is you have
to put aside enough money to give
yourself a window and then you have to
have a plan and you have to spend all
your waking hours outside of whatever
shit job you do planning your escape and
you have to come to the realization very
clearly that you fucked up and you got
yourself stuck so whatever you're doing
you have to
do it like your life depends on it
and whether it is you're trying to be an
author and you're gonna you're gonna if
you're gonna try to be an author and
you're working eight hours a day plus
commuting plus family responsibilities
or whatever else you have whatever time
that you have you have to attack like
you're trying to save the world you're
trying to save your life you don't want
to drown that one-and-a-half hours a day
that you have to write goddamn you
better be caffeinated and motivated you
got to go you got to get after it and
you got to have discipline that's most
people don't have those things most
people don't understand what it's like
to really go for something and to know
that the consequences of not doing that
are horrific
then you're desperate yeah but I do
think there is something to be said for
fate and circumstance sure and I always
write it I mean people in these military
and environments that I write about and
in these intelligence world environments
fate and circumstance plays a big part
because they too can even get complacent
you know but when your life is on the
line right a lot of times they have
these experiences where they're like I
must change and that's what I find
really interesting yeah in people sure
desperation
yeah um I think fate and circumstance
are giant the fortune is giant there's
no question about it some children get
shot in drive-bys you know that's just
horrible horrible luck and unfortunate
circumstance there's a lot of a lot of
it is fortune and fate how about people
getting lost right okay so the book that
I told you I wrote on the psychics
phenomenon wouldn't believe about that
again I'm neutral right well mom you're
not tell me I want to hear what you
believe I think there's a lot of people
are full shit absolutely God all people
that are talking about being psychic or
full shit but I do think that there is a
strange connection that we have with
each other that's intangible and I think
that some people have better connections
and others just like some people more
intelligent like we were talking before
the podcast about Elon Musk and it's
painfully aware when you talk to him
what a champ you are
he's so fucking smart and his brain is
it just it's built different just like
some people have defective hearts some
people have a heart like Lance Armstrong
it's incredible huge of an anomaly
some people have giant hands he's a big
heart literally yes literally and they
don't know whether or not that's from
training or steroids and EPO and or
whether or not it's something he was
born with they really don't know but
yeah as an unusually sized heart it's
usually large but what was my point
they circumstance getting lost no
psychics psychics that's what is I don't
I think that most of the people that can
tell you the future a full shut most of
the people that are taught I think
people get feelings I think sometimes
you think about someone they call you
and I don't know what that is I don't
know if that's just complete fortune
like how many times you think it about a
person when they don't call you that's
the argument against it but how many
times you thinking about that person
they don't call you but they're thinking
about you as well how many I mean how
how often is that with star-crossed
lovers they find each other years later
and they tell each other they've been
thinking about each other all the time
they can't believe it that's that's and
when you get that text from someone
maybe that's just someone prone to
action but maybe there is some sort of a
connection some sort of quantum
entanglement between you and someone you
spent time with or shared energy with
it's possible it's possible but the
problem is you have these mediums and
psychics and those people are just
assholes and I have a friend his name's
Banacek and he runs a Las Vegas
Mentalist show where he shows you how he
does these tricks but he'll tell you
absolutely these are true he's been on
the podcast a brilliant brilliant man
but he'll tell you these are tricks I'm
showing you how I do this this I mean
I'm going to tell you that's a track I'm
not going to give you the how I do it
but I'm gonna tell you while I'm doing
it this is a trick but he's pulling all
this information out of people about
their past their childhood he's guessing
people's ages he's guessing where they
grew up I mean and it's it's all a
little sneaky shit you know it's the way
they do it's it's a skill as much as
anything and so when you see these
people that are channelers or you know
psychics there
telling you about someone in your past
trying to contact you
they're con artists almost exclusively I
mean then maybe there's like one lady in
Tibet that has a broken gene and she
could tune into the next dimension and
and pull some extract some information
from it but in my experience the vast
majority of those people that I've
talked to that claim to have psychic
ability were also at least partially
full shit they had weird ego problems
that were glaring that they didn't
notice you know like I could see it that
this is a gross way to behave and they
don't see it their interpersonal
relationships the way they communicate
with people was like an agent like a
fake Hollywood person or something
there's something bullshitty about them
yeah and people who lie a lot I think if
you lie a lot it's very difficult for
you to tell what a lie is oh that's
interesting yeah I think you lose your
connection I think when you when you
bullshit I think you also bullshit
yourself and I think these psychics are
a hundred percent honest even with
themselves I don't think this is like
I'm gonna fuck this lady over she think
she got to talk to her husband a mo tell
her some nonsense take her money I think
some of them actually believes they're
getting information you know my
grandmother used to believe that my
grandmother was she was a very eccentric
lady and old Sicilian lady and she would
tell you about the like old Italian
ladies all like want to play the lottery
they all have numbers there and she was
playing the numbers wasn't even the
lottery it was like the organized crime
numbers racket and she would always I
was gonna pick this number and I just
add up the last minute I changed the
number wouldn't you know it the first
one came in and she was so mad there was
always that that I had a dream of this
and I had a vision of that and it was
all visions and dreams and psychics but
everything worked out horribly for her
it always did like if like you were
really psychic you would have better
instincts like this is just this
inclination that people have that
there's something special about their
perceptions and that they're psychic and
it's always these really wacky people
that believe their psychics in my my
experience which I mean it's you're I
think you're talking also about that
what some scientists would call the
self-fulfilling
you know that if you believe this things
happen manifest themselves and you can
convince yourself that you believe this
but for me I'm super interested in
people who really believe in psychics
right like that's what in the military
for example and you know the most
trusted danes you talk to those guys the
remote-viewing guys i - a lot of the
scientists who taught the remote viewing
and i talked to a number of remote
viewers and for the book but the most
interesting of all was the astronaut ed
Mitchell right and he was so so I'm
interested in like the psychology behind
what are you looking for in that and I
saw that I was doing some research in an
archive and I came across a photo of
what turned out to be ed Mitchell on the
moon reading a piece of paper okay it's
this extraordinary image because you're
like wait a minute he's on the moon and
he's reading a document what is that
document I found out the document was a
map of the moon okay Mitchell got lost
on the moon and literally pulled a map
out of like okay god I'm he was trying
to get to a certain crater and they had
a very limited amount of time there it
is right there right okay there he is
Wow I mean think about that it's like
the most advanced technology of the time
why with the camera tell him where to go
[Applause]
hey bro this one left we do get let's
just follow our footprints we're the
only ones walking what are you stupid
turn around look at the ground see those
things that's where you walked let's go
that way Jesus Christ I'd be so mad at
him I'm like bro you pulling out a map
who wrote that map no one's even been
here come on man they had little maps
folded up in their in their pockets in
case they got lost they were on the way
to this crater and in that crater they
were gonna find allegedly rocks that
were gonna solve the mystery of the
moon's creation the origin story rights
they like all this pressure they
couldn't find it the heart rates up the
guys at Houston are like you got to turn
back your heart rates going crazy yeah
and think about it Mitchell tells me I
went to interview him at his house when
I think it was his last interview before
he died and he said there we had gotten
240,000 miles
- only to get lost they missed the
crater by like you know 900 feet or
something really so he never got to the
career never got to what he was
devastated and on the way back from the
moon he has this what he told me was a
psychic change right he his his
consciousness flipped and he became
convinced that psychic powers were real
and that is really the beginning of his
foray I mean Mitchell became a huge
proponent of psychic warfare of you know
the the idea behind what you're talking
about that we spoke of as being sort of
charlatans ISM and he dedicated the rest
of his life to it boy aliens as well and
I think that we were definitely in
contact with the aliens and and that
comes from like he was so vilified by
the scientists and by the astronauts and
by the kind of military men because this
was just he told me the story of when
they were in quarantine after they came
back from the moon right he and Shepard
were sitting there you know eating
breakfast waiting and Shepard the
story's a story broke that Mitchell had
done some ESP experiments on the way
back from the moon and Shepard said to
him like look at this nonsense the
newspapers will do anything to sell make
a buck and Mitchell said I I did that I
actually did that what experiments he
was doing ESP experiments on the way
back from the moon he had a psychic in
Chicago a Swedish psychic that he was
sending messages to like she thought it
was an old Swedish man all right my
psychic can take my clothes off ya know
I'll introduce you to Olaf okay okay
I saw the movie frozen I didn't see that
one Olaf's the little snowman you got
younger kid yeah anyway sorry so ed
Mitchell was talking to this hot chick
in the hot old man in and and and the
story broke because the the Swedish
psychic could not resist telling you
know leaking to the press that he had
done these
experiments what experiments will do
well psychics
train on these little cards called Zener
cards right so like you have a different
symbols on them and you know one one
person that's how they decide whether or
not they're being psychic like there
would be a veil between us and I would
say what are you seeing right and you
would call it out so it's like a control
system and Mitchell had these items with
him on the way to the moon and did these
experiments to try to see whether you
could have a psychic connection with
someone back on earth hmm I mean he that
was you know did it work well no and he
took notes I he showed me the notes it
was so wild to be at his house in
Florida and he pulls out this old spiral
notebook with like water stains on it
that actually went to the moon hmm I was
like wow this is really something else I
mean it was one of those moments in time
where you're just like I don't know
there was a feel there was a feeling of
sadness around all of it
mmm with Ed Mitchell sitting there in
his um you know his chair and talking to
me about what it was like to be an
Apollo astronaut on the walls I'm not
with a lot of these sources with like
incredible amounts of awards on the
walls but what does that mean after time
passes so his experiments didn't work
but he still believed in psychic powers
yes I mean and that's and he okay's what
we were saying he was ridiculed you know
and he had such a tough time with it and
so the people who propped him up and the
people who gave him a lot of
encouragement had sort of more radical
ideas as he grew older and you know
conspiracy theorists who really kind of
used him because he was an Apollo
astronaut so he was so much more famous
than any of them would ever be and they
really took advantage of him I think so
you think they manipulated him with
information and tried to get him more
and more enthusiastic about their I mean
it's speculation on my part but you kind
of go where the love is right he was an
older guy and I seen some interviews
with him as he was getting older and
older and he see
to be having some difficulties like
thinking about things clearly and people
take advantage of that yeah he was
really obsessed with extraterrestrial
life who's really interesting because
didn't he claimed that he had seen
something while he was up in space
I think people helped him make that
claim that was my understanding of it of
reporting I mean I stayed away from some
of the crazier speculative things about
him cuz I what I was really interested
in when I was writing that book was how
his authority and power allowed the
program to get funding right because so
much of this is it's like who's funding
this stuff and why and it really does
come down to Authority which is always a
which is always a narrative that I find
fascinating right how do people get the
authority to say go on these programs or
you know we should do that I mean the
question you asked of like how does
who's in charge right right and in all
of this what I learned more than
anything is that the office of the
president has a lot more power than I
think any of us are aware oh I'm sure
what did you find anything about Ed
Mitchell did he say anything about see
if he said anything about seeing a UFO
or seeing extraterrestrial life but the
problem is if he believes that boy you
know if he was talked into saying that
he got a wonder about a lot of the other
things that he said as well the other
thing is as these guys get older that
becomes their career the career becomes
discussing their experiences and the
more outrageous those experiences are
the better the career is it's it's
absolutely change their stories you know
Michael Collins changed his story his
story when he just got back from the
moon excuse me when he just got back
from the moon his story was that they
couldn't see any stars but then as he
got older he wrote in depth in his book
and things in the 90s you know decades
later how vivid the stars were and how
incredible it was out there with no
atmosphere but there's a press
conference when he came back from the
moon right after the Apollo 11 moon
he was talking about he couldn't see any
stars so everybody's like well what what
is it
did you know they there's they get lost
right they're older it's been so many
years since whatever they did when they
were working with NASA and really it
becomes that's their focal point of
attention like what where they get their
attention from and where they make their
career is from their attention and so
they start telling these inconsistent
stories I mean one of the great perils
of you know living on your laurels is
exactly that and it's why I mean like a
guy like Billy wah I was so intrigued by
that he was constantly reinventing his
own role within the CIA as he talked to
me about at length because he never
wanted to just become one of those
husband's right so his cover later
became just another old man which is
like super interesting like he was in
Sudan in the 90s and he actually took
the first reconnaissance photographs of
Osama bin Laden before bin Laden was on
anybody's radar except for the CIA's and
his I mean how do you run it he said to
me how do you run around Sudan which is
a country made up of like really tall
black Dinka tribesmen if you're a 5 foot
8 old white guy in who's 72 you know
supposed to get reconnaissance
photographs of bin Laden right do it
wear golf shirts you know I have a
photograph um he wore like you know
those socks like that go all the way up
to your door yes and little shorts and a
sweatband over his head and he said my
cover was that I was an old man on a
fitness craze and there he is running
around Sudan I mean there's no sidewalks
right and he's just jogging away and he
said bin Laden's dogs used to come after
him and so he would have to run with a
lead pipe whoa whack the dogs on the
nose and he said they'd stop coming
after me Wow Jesus I can't find any
evidence that he says that he saw aliens
but there's evident reports that based
off of his conversations with lots of
different people he believes that aliens
at some point visited earth and that
it's being covered up don'tdon't on I
mean that's an easy narrative Troy yeah
sure yeah and I mean how much they tell
ed Mitchell
they say thanks for going tomorrow well
look one of the most interesting things
about reporting this is wit that you
find out these people that you think
have access to all the information right
only know they're a piece of the pie how
much do you think Trump knows do you
think they keep stuff from him because I
would say like he's kind of a loose
cannon I wouldn't tell him about the
everybody I I often wonder that like can
the president be like I demand to know
about that yeah and then can they say no
sir or they say as I write in one of my
other books it's like you don't want to
know about that because you don't want
to have to lie well that's nonsense I
definitely one I would want to know it
would be the only reason to become
president you have to figure out why you
have to lie like whether or not if you
have to lie makes sense to you right
like there's some things that you know
that we're done like the Tuskegee
syphilis experiment where you go what
the fuck are you doing like no you can't
do that but then there's some things you
go oh I see why you had to do that yes
you know so it would have to be like
which one of those things is it is it
one of those things where it makes sense
where you had to go and assassinate
someone who was plotting some sort of a
nuclear attack on Chicago or is it some
nefarious plot to turn down syndrome
children into surgically constructed
fake aliens and crash them into the
earth and the curiosity factor would be
outrageous I mean can you imagine being
the president and saying I want to know
about you know JFK noir like sir you
don't want to know right then you would
go well of course I want to know now I
really want to know I mean that happens
to me as a reporter all the time when I
can't talk about that that just becomes
the obsession it's like yeah that's the
first thing I'd want to know I'd almost
run for president to learn about aliens
and like come on bro but then if I found
out there were nothing I'd be like well
fuck this job I quit I don't want I
don't want to run the world I just want
to find out about the alien
and then there's all these things that
you find out Jamie and I were talking
about that before it's like man you know
Jamie was obsessed
well he's obsessed with Chicago all
right oh hi oh rather Columbus and we
were well we were talking about Nazis I
mean I wrote a book about Operation
Paperclip
and oh my god talk about a rabbit's hole
that's a rabbit hole
let's explain to people that don't know
what we're talking about Operation
Paperclip was when after World War two
the United States gathered up a ton of
scientists from Nazi Germany brought
them over to America and even Wernher
von Braun they had Wernher von Braun run
NASA he was a Nazi like a hundred
percent Nazi good friends with Hitler
type on say yes he was he ran a Berlin
rocket factory where they hung the five
slowest Jews they would hang them out
front so everybody would know like this
is what happens when you work slow well
hang you I mean the Simon Wiesenthal
Center said that if Wernher von Braun
was alive today they would prosecute him
for crimes against humanity yes and that
was the head announcer that was a head
of NASA that was the guy who got us to
the moon that was the big cheese guy
yeah so we were willing to put a lot of
really dark things aside and norther to
gather out the best scientists of the
Soviet Union couldn't get them all and
they got a few of them as well but we
got how many more than a thousand right
allegedly 1,400 but I would not be
surprised if you know the story changes
and there were more right yeah but that
goes back to our discussion earlier
about being in pole position I mean
that's why we grabbed those Nazis we
were like if we don't get them the
Russians I have it I get it and you know
and I'm sure the Nazis could say I
didn't want to do it they made me I'm a
nice person I love Jews oh that was part
of the mythology it was like we got the
good Germans oh I didn't we got the we
got the top Germans and who do you think
the top Germans were yeah they were
coveted by Hitler Himmler Goering you
know yeah I mean these guys were right I
mean there were guys that we grabbed out
of the docks at nrnberg literally to
come be part of our program
you know one of these smart you're an
asset right I mean that's what ginga's
Khan used to do he'd take warlords from
the other side and capture I'm gonna
listen for me I'm mad I mean what you
know ideology aside I'm super smart and
I want that to be known that's good
that's that's the competitor right I
mean you can't you cannot be the best
rocket designer in the world and not
want those talents you know demonstrated
that's Wernher von Braun story that's
the story of all of them and that was
was so shocking writing that book
because it's a it's like wow you know
huge amounts of talent but how far will
the competitor go to see their baby come
to fruition what are they willing to put
aside yeah did you pay any attention to
the other places where Nazis went when
they escaped Germany like Argentina in
particular you ever seen any of that
stuff they have entire German towns down
in Argentina right they do
Oktoberfest down there they wear
lederhosen they drink out of Stein's
it's crazy they speak German and you're
like what the fuck is this like my
friend Tim Kennedy went down there and
he said he was literally talking to
people interviewing people and they had
photos of SS soldiers on their wall and
they would talk about how grandfather
was a hero and like like you are you're
the descendants of escaped Nazis and
they put together a town down there I
mean the way the Nazis were able to flee
is I can't read enough of that I mean
that's what Jamie now we're talking
about it's they are oh my god and it's
endless
I mean they're so you know the ones that
week there was a famous guy that we got
he was the Surgeon General of the Third
Reich I mean think about that okay dr.
Walter Schreiber I mean he was such a
bad dude he was in charge of the vaccine
program I mean you just put those words
together and your mind goes really dark
right but we wanted him because he was
an expert
and we brought him to the United States
he was the only Nazi I found of the ones
the paperclip scientists who came here
that that was actually outed right he
was outed as a Nazi and that's because
one of the investigators at the
Nuremberg trials recognized him oh Jesus
and we he's the only one we got out of
here and guess where he went
she lived out the rest of his life there
the the show was called finding Hitler
there they were trying to find evidence
that Hitler somehow escaped there's
really a bullshit promise to the show
but what was interesting is that there
were thousands and thousands of Nazis
that made it to Argentina and set up
shop throughout South America it's a lot
of Germans down there it's kind of weird
if you can imagine me on book tour of
like the kind of questions I get because
we're talking right having written books
about area 51 Nazis assassin soul people
I mean just last night I was at a book
giving you the signing and people are
like is Hitler really dead you know
Karthi I mean that if he was alive he'd
be the oldest man alive right imagine he
was probably like how old was he during
World War two he had to be in this 40n
be hundreds you know I mean no no I mean
but right or they say he cloned himself
160 years old 120 now Jamie knows that's
an old man I mean there's been a hundred
20 year old people but it's fucking
pretty rare yeah so Operation Paperclip
was not even publicly acknowledged until
what was it like the 90s like when did
they when did it become public I think
was through the Freedom of Information
Act wasn't it was this very intrepid
journalist named Linda hunt he'll shout
out the window yeah I mean she but you
know she broke the story that's what's
amazing I mean as a journalist you're
always writing on the shoulders of those
before you right mm-hmm and she had it
really hard because she did a Freedom of
Information Act request got all these
documents that no one had ever seen and
then the government sent her a bill for
a hundred and twenty five thousand
dollars
and she had to spend a lot of time this
is what I understand I never interviewed
her but for for xeroxing fees what yeah
I just love that detail because it's
like it's such a covert way of getting
someone to stop it's like okay here's
the information we had to give it to you
but now here's your bill
imagine if the government's coming down
on you for 125 grand yeah see the
company want to call a bunch of rich
people and go hey let's all just donate
$1,000 facility and it's a different
world now you could do that you could do
a GoFundMe campaign you know my god in
the 80s and the 90s you were just like
out on a limb yeah they would crush you
financing we actually had this very same
discussion yesterday with my friend Phil
DeMars who's being sued by Marineland
and because of he was a walrus trainer
and trained orcas and he's showing how
horrific it wasn't black fish that's
SeaWorld but that's SeaWorld is actually
the way he says it's a day in the park
compared to Marineland Greenland's
horrific place in Canada and anyway they
have been trying to squash him with
legal beats by dragging out his legal
fees by dragging on his case but he set
up GoFundMe and all his legal bills get
paid for from people that want him to
win the good fight and this is a this is
an option today that wasn't available to
Linda when she was exposing this that's
$25,000 you assholes like she should sue
them for misappropriation of funds like
does it cost you really $125,000 to
print those things out of it does you
guys should be in jail like that's like
with like those $10,000 hammers that
they have and mm-hmm the Pentagon yeah
yeah so she gets all this information
and does the government immediately
acknowledge that the important is Nazis
that no I mean she wrote the first book
and it was just stunning and and you
know it was late 80s Early 90s okay and
you know then more gets revealed because
they gave her a certain amount I mean I
filed a bunch of FOIA as there was
releases I went to Germany FOIA meaning
free to Freedom of Information Act yes
then I went to Germany and looked in
their archives with like
a fellow a German PhD who had you know
real access to stuff and was able to
translate for me while we were there
looking at this stuff
I interviewed a lot of grandchildren of
Nazis and children of Nazis and you know
I mean this one extraordinary oh my god
there's a guy I told you about Shriver
right I'm on the narrative level humans
acting I'm so interested in rivalry in
competition right as a concept because
this is what America does to be the best
and also as humans right because more
like that they're built like that so the
Nazis had rivals amongst themselves and
Schreiber's rival was dr. Bluhm who was
in charge of the biological weapons
program for Hitler
okay and Blum had a son and Blum was
prosecuted at Nuremberg you can see a
picture of him with a big Dueling scar
you know he was a bad dude he was a
Dueling scar Dueling scar dual like a
sword sword fighting it was like among
the Nazis they would they would duel
with one another when they were younger
students and then they would pack the
wound with horsehair to make it even
more pronounced because it looked
ferocious pull up Jamie pull up well you
can pull up dr. Bluhm bol em II but also
right and also you can pull if you pull
up Kurt Debus who was the director of
our JFK Center he was part he was NASA's
Vaughan Browns number 2 he had a huge
Dueling scar and yet when you knowing
look at there he is right there
knowing what we know now it's like come
on you're trying to tell me that guy's
not a hardcore Nazi so those guys had
dueling scars on their face yeah you see
him how often did they do well when they
were in college of death no no no no no
it was like on guard you know and then
they would I'm saying venting fencing oh
this guy had it too yeah how did they
not get poked in the eyes oh I guess
that was the gentlemen's rule how do you
fuck listen you going for the cheek you
hit the eye like that happens all the
time I mean there must
my balls out I haven't seen any
photographs of missing eyeballs but
there's a lot right on the cheek so
maybe that was the whole point it was
actually just a bit for show oh I am
weird but but it was a revoir it was a
badge of honor yeah and and but so they
all had on their face it's on the same
spot doing scars yeah Wow so imagine he
wanted to have these scars that was a
Jesus Christ oh they had goggles on oh
there you go that's how they didn't take
up academic fencing it says academic
fencing so what they were essentially
doing they were having fencing matches
with real swords not with ones with tips
Wow and cutting their faces up fuck man
oh Jesus look at this guy's face yikes
Wow doing cops cults that is crazy
so when you consider like that people
people did not know about that and then
you've got these Germans walking around
America as part of our space program in
our science programs and oh these are
the good Germans I mean now you really
have to say to yourself come on we're
all Nazis yeah it's cars in their face
absolutely oh that's Dark Matter G Fight
Club Yeah right off I super Oh G
yeah god that's crazy
Wow so I go to interview um doc
sometimes you as a journalist you can
get amazing information from these guys
oh my god they're sliced up after
European martial arts yeah well I mean
that is a martial art means an art of
war really a sword fighting is a martial
art I mean many martial arts have
weapons yes sorry you say you go to
interviews people so to piece together
the story right I can't tell you others
can right sometimes in the to find out
more about the Nazis I went to Germany
and sought out some children of these
top top Nazis to see if maybe they
didn't have journals or anything they
might share with me
and one of them was dr. Bluhm his son I
tracked down I found him and he said yes
you may come visit me and it was such a
remarkable journey it was like he lived
in the Black Forest I had to take like a
taxi through the mountains up over the
hill down through the valley you know
into a courtyard behind a church - dr.
blooms house
so he was in the junior - his father who
was this horrific Nazi I mean a top Nazi
had favor of the fear were what was
called the golden party badge right
Hitler gave out these little buttons
Blum's was I believe number six so
that's how favored he was and his son
dr. Kurt Blome whereas the father was in
charge of the biological weapons program
so his plan was to you know murder
people with biological weapons from
nature right the son had been a medical
doctor but had left the profession to
cure people with flowers it's called
Bach flower therapy so he was this very
interesting individual who had never
given an interview before and he agreed
to let me come to him so I go on that
journey I go to his house and he was
remarkable I mean he was so interesting
talk about the sins of the father you
know I mean my god what he what he had
what he had as a burden right and he and
I asked him to tell me everything he
could about his father and he did and
then he asked me to tell me what I knew
about his father I had information from
the German archives about his father
that he did not have like that his
father had given something I just come
from this archive and found these
documents dr. Bluhm ordered that 6,000
tuberculin sonder be handling that's the
german word what does that mean special
treatment there's a euphemism for you
that was kill those 6,000 tubercular
Jews when you say tubercular is that
people with tuberculosis they were
suffering from tuberculosis and he dr.
Bluhm worked closely with Himmler and
they just decided to kill him and you
know sitting there talking to this man
telling him about his father at his
request was remarkable and then he's
telling me what he knows and then
as I'm getting ready to leave he says to
me I'd like you to have these
and he takes down from his incredible
bookshelf
he himself had written eight books right
and he takes down these books and he
hands them to me and they're in these
wrappers and I can see that they have
Nuremberg nomenclature on them and what
they are is they're his father's
documents from his Nuremberg trial and
he and I'm like I can't take these I
thought he meant take them back to my
hotel room look at them and then you
know bring them back the next morning
when we were doing the next interview
and he said no no I want you to have
them and I was like I can't have them
and he said I don't want them and you
should have them and it gave them to me
so I had this stat so I was like on my
trip home it was so perplexing because I
threw out all of my clothes I was like
screw the clothes I mean I just carry
I've travel with a carry-on bag right so
I in my carry-on bag all I have is this
Nazi paraphernalia that is dr. Blum's
Omar the deputy Surgeon General of the
Third Reich's documents from Nuremberg
covered with swastikas all more I mean
he was acquitted at Nuremberg based on
all these documents okay and that by the
way based on human experiments and I'm
at the airport and I realized suddenly
oh my god swastikas like this is illegal
if they go through my bag I'm going to
be arrested I'm carrying I mean I'm
carrying these incendiary you have any
copies of your book on you oh no no no I
was just like at least one Joe I was
sweating almost as hard as I was
sweating at the beginning of this
interview all right I went because you
know I was like wow I went through no
problem got home I have them no luck you
didn't go through Israel well you know
what it's not the swastika is not out
there but it is in Germany you may not
have any Nazi paraphernalia whatsoever
in fact my paperclip book which has a
swastika on it had to be redesigned the
car
for the German publication and it just
has like broken up images of the Nazis
because you cannot reproduce that image
in German it's I mean I'm not Pro
swastika
but it's so strange that we've given so
much power to this design that you can't
even see it it used to be there say
there's a temple out here that I think
is I believe it's a Hindu temple and it
was a part of Hinduism that this
swastika predates World War two it
predates the Nazis predates their
they're sort of reclaiming of it and the
this building that was built out here in
the nineteen I think was built in the
1920s has swastikas on there's a big
plaque explaining why their swastika is
on it I know they had a different angle
mm-hmm but I mean talk about branding
right I mean my god that was and the
Nazis were you know kings of that I mean
they were only that the mustache that
guy killed that mustache there's not
another thing like that but he didn't
kill the dueling scar right that could
come back do you think no no no not
after your show what do you have four
million viewers probably people don't
think about it that way they don't think
about the dueling scar as being a Nazi
thing no no that's what I find a
remarkable right
they really don't but the Nazis did the
Nazis did and then you look there's an
amazing photograph of JFK Lyndon Johnson
Kurt Davis sitting at you know for a
launch a moon launch and there's Davis
with his huge Dueling scar and I'm like
and their position was oh he's one of
the good Germans well that culture was a
culture of ruthlessness I mean was a
even the good ones there he is
yes good job Jamie look at that can you
believe star on his face they still give
out an award by the way that's called
the Kurt Debus award and I rang them up
and said like why are you guys giving
out this award he was a hardcore Nazi
well they say they were like they've
hemmed and hawed and I finally said well
at least tell me what you say to people
who asked that question you know they
said well no one's ever asked us that
question before Annie
well they will now Jesus it's when you
really stop and think about the horrific
nature of what the Nazis did I mean how
inhuman it was how how crazy it was like
that had to permeate the entire culture
there is no good Nazis there was not one
even one of them that was looped into
that had to be responsible for some
awful awful shit
I mean Einstein said it the best when he
said you should you know you could have
left like people who couldn't have left
should have left right well do you know
the story of Fritz Harbor right the guy
yes I mean he wound up having to flee
and he's the guy who created Zyklon
gasps he's you know he created his icon
a which had smell built into it so that
would warn you when you were using this
pesticide and then the Nazis turned it
into zyklon-b
or they removed that element that added
the smell and just this odorless
horrific poisonous gas that they used to
gas the Jews and he was a Jew I mean I
you know then when you think about he be
king he was no longer useful to them
because only figured out he really was a
Jew yeah well once world war 2 came
around see he was a part of World War 1
when they first started using gas and he
was there's a great radio lab podcast
about it I think it's called
the bad show but anyway what essentially
says that he was winning he was up for
the Nobel Prize at the same time he was
wanted for crimes against humanity
because he was up for the Nobel Prize
for creating the hobbit' method of
extracting nitrogen from the atmosphere
which was used for fertilizer which to
this day they say 50% of the nitrogen in
human bodies was created by the harbor
method so what you get from food from
vegetables like that nitrogen 50% of it
at least is coming from this guy's
method who was a scientist who was a Jew
who was working in Germany before it
became Nazi Germany and then was the guy
who figured out how to use gas on people
it's that dark his story listed
our story I mean he died looking for
medical treatment because he had a flee
Germany and he's had a bad heart he died
on the road trying to get to Switzerland
that's the thing was what's wrong yeah
yeah it's
I mean Nazi Germany is like the pole
position taken way too far and that's
what's remarkable that the Pentagon was
like okay but we can learn from this
mm-hmm and there there are elements that
are dark in that well it also comes out
of the devastation of World War one
right the economic devastation the
defeat the Germans are in this terrible
state overall in terms of their morale
and then along comes this charismatic
psychopath that is just really good at
screaming to this day I don't speak
German but to this day when you watch
that guy scream and yell at all those
people and see them respond it gives you
chills like that kind of charisma that
kind of influence that someone has where
they can do that in front of thousands
and thousands of people and everyone's
goose-stepping and so to see we're very
fortunate there's not something like
that right now and our forefathers and
our grandparents and whoever fought in
world war ii if it wasn't for them who
knows where this world would be right
now because that was a literal evil
empire straight out of Star Wars I mean
that was like the Sith Lord they were
they really were there were human beings
who were doing some of the most evil
shit that you could almost demonic if
you really stopped and thought about it
if there were demons pretended to be
people they would do the same thing I
mean it that's why I think it's a rabbit
hole because it's so hard to comprehend
that like a culture of educated
individuals in that moment in time that
you talked about between World War two
World War one and World War two could
could completely become Minette
malevolent yeah that's one of the more
disturbing things about the Nazis was
that there were so many of these people
that they did extract through Operation
Paperclip brilliant engineers and
scientists that were also evil like
those two things are very uncomfortable
for us we like to think of our
scientists as being the people that are
out there trying to solve
mysteries of the universe and provide us
with the technology to make our life
better here on earth not the Nazis they
were trying to figure out how to kill
people better they were trying to figure
out how to use rockets to shoot them at
Europe and blow people up and it is a
it's one of the more telling and
horrific times in our history when you
because it's it's one of the one of the
more horrific ones that we have footage
of because we don't have footage of
Genghis Khan we don't have footage of
Alexander the Great
we don't we have stories and tales of
Napoleon and some photographs and
drawings of dictators past and prep but
we have a lot of footage from Vietnam we
have a lot of footage from World War two
we have a lot of footage from modern
wars and out of all of them the one that
scares us the most and scares me the
house is World War two do you think
those scientists when they came here
because this is a this is a I could not
figure this out even after writing that
whole book is it do you think they came
here and actually thought about what
they had done or they were able to
convince themselves that they were the
good Germans that they were part of it
because I never saw a single bit of
remorse ever like no one ever
acknowledged what they had done so it
made me wonder
I guess results very right I mean I
think there's probably two people that
go through the same thing and one person
has no problem with it and the other
person literally can't sleep I don't
know it's a good question it would be
interesting to interview them the the
ones who've been caught who've been
prosecuted and have been chased down and
they've got one fairly recently they
caught a Nazi like just a few months ago
it's one of the last ones using as 90s I
believe the ones who survived they all
tell different stories and some of them
say they just wished following orders
and you know some of them say that they
didn't do it they're being framed they
all have different stories it's it's one
of them you know you write a book about
that and or you think about it and you
kind of have you go down the rabbit hole
you have to you have to ask yourself
what does this mean or you kind of it's
too dark right and then so I asked that
question to a schvitz survivor okay who
I wrote about in the book his name was
Gerhard Murkowski and he the reason he
was he survived Auschwitz was because he
was taken over to the labor camp which
was called buna so it was a rubber
factory and it was led by this truly
evil man named otto Ambrose who became
part of Operation Paperclip okay after
being tried at Nuremberg and being
convicted of mass murder and genocide
right we got him out and he worked for
us you got to read the story of I mean
it's just it's just astonishing Otto
Ambrose simply extract chemists oh right
but he was so he so gerhard was at buna
this factory this rubber factory and he
lived and i did an interview with him
because I was asking him you know the
flipside of of all of that and his whole
family was killed at Auschwitz and I
said to him what does any of you know we
went through all these questions to try
to get some closure to this or some
meaning and I said and then I'll we land
and I said well you know we couldn't
that we couldn't answer what does this
mean right what does it mean for today
couldn't answer we are so when I asked
him what matters about all this he went
like this he lifted up his sleeve and he
showed me his tattoo and he said that
matters and I have that image seared in
my mind I had never seen a tattoo from
Auschwitz before and I have not since
and it also made me think as I thought
he's gonna die soon and he has diet
cents and then that tattoos gone so all
you have is the exchange of information
and people talking about it yeah the
eyewitnesses died how did they get that
guy out of Nuremberg how did they get
them to release him well okay so he was
convicted at Nuremberg then he went to
prison he went to the prison where we
had all the
they didn't execute them no obviously
they executed like the top Nazis and
then a lot of these guys went to prison
so there was a bunch of trials and so I
went to the prison I saw his cell I mean
in Germany was intense Landsberg prison
and then we because we were sort of
policing Nazi Germany after it was not
you know after the war was over policing
Germany and then Kate and a guy named
McCoy was in charge he was kind of like
the Governor General of Germany and the
Germans wanted Germany back and they
were like we're tired of you guys
policing us the threat from the Russians
was very real and so deals were made I
mean I write about all this in paperclip
you know based on the documents and one
of the provisions was we want our guys
out of prison we want them back in
society and that was arranged and again
you don't even know these things you
know they're like but that was and then
Otto amperes and they even gave him his
money back
that was astonishing and the family
still has this villa in Switzerland I
believe or maybe it's the Bavarian Alps
that had been in the family which is
money from you know from world from Nazi
Germany and I called up the son to
interview him he was not as forthright
as dr. Bluhm son and you know he hung up
on me and said if you if you ever
contact me again all you know they have
very serious privacy laws in Germany I
thought about going and knocking on his
front door my lawyer was like Annie do
not do that they have very different
laws in Germany for privacy yes
even if issues like this son of a Nazi
yes absolutely
well I would imagine look if he didn't
do anything he shouldn't be responsible
for what his father did no but he has
the villa that was the point I had all
the money right and he got that money
from his father who got that money from
stealing it from people during World War
two L's yeah like what happens there yes
but if you go back to that like we
should really find out who had the
plantations in America and who benefited
from that like go several generations
from there I mean you could get weird
with with
war reparations deeds were people
profited yeah I mean which is sometimes
a reason why you I realized in looking
at these in reporting these books which
is why certain things are kept secret I
mean they open up a whole can of worms
about reparations sure you know yeah Wow
was operating pip Operation Paperclip
writing that book was that one of the
most disturbing ones I mean that was so
dark my husband is amazing he's
Norwegian
right and the nor the Norway was
occupied by the Nazis for five years
like people kind of forget that but he
he grew up there and his mom you know
was a grade schooler and was really
impacted like didn't go to school for
five years while the Nazis were there
they were gonna breed with the
Norwegians cuz they were such lovely
Aryan people right so my husband having
a Norwegian mom was like when I was
writing paperclip it would be so dark
sometimes I would be like down in my
office like I can't you know honey I
can't you know uh and he'd he'd be down
there with a sandwich or coffee and say
but are you throwing another Nazi under
the bus and I would say yes he'd say
keep typing right and then I realized
well wait a minute the neutral
journalist has to really make sure that
she's not just throwing Nazis under the
bus without really good reason and so
when I was in Germany at the archives I
went to Dachau the concentration camp
and I asked the lead archivist if I
could come and see the worst possible
photographs that no one wants to see and
he said absolutely and I didn't write
about them in the book because I didn't
want to subject people to that kind of
horror but I looked at them and I
watched I saw with my own eyes
people moments before they were killed
you know and then the bodies afterwards
and these are inhuman experiments to you
know to see whether or not pilots could
survive height or you know they
simulated different things in chambers
out high altitude or speed and I saw I
saw photographs of you know freezing
people to death right because they were
trying to develop programs where they
would they wanted to see at what
temperature humans actually died
right and so they experimented on Jews
these are these are some of the doctors
that came on our programs and I looked
at those that evidence and I was that
blew me away and then I knew when I left
there okay I can I can throw these Nazis
under the bus it is it's such a crazy
time in history well you really stop and
think about all the different
experiments that they did do it's almost
like they just opened up the vault of
evil and said listen we have an
opportunity these people aren't people
let's do whatever we want it's like
they're fake people it's like like they
were an invention I mean the perception
really played into it so gross it's so
scary to think about that humans just
you know a generation or two away
capable of doing that yes and so I think
what it when it all comes around full
circles all these government programs I
write about is that idea of an evil
enemy right mm-hmm I mean we talked
about that earlier when you brought up
khashoggi right I mean you know people
often say to me and these are sources
they're like Annie Saudi Arabia is the
root of all evil I mean I hear that
constantly and why are they our ally why
are we protecting them you know oil
right yes yeah so money and influence in
the Middle East and to have an ally over
there and that's it's why I think people
the the benefit of you know people often
say to me why do you write these 500
page books well because I mean hopefully
they're interesting and I do know
they're interesting because I got this
great emailed row the other day from a
reader and he said Annie I'm a truck
driver and my whole life people have
tried to tell me I'm stupid but I drive
around in my truck and I listen to your
books I read the audio on my books and
he said now I know I'm really smart
okay he's stupid that guy's ridiculous
hey wouldn't your whole life everyone's
telling you're stupid and then you read
some books ago now I know I'm smart well
he oh come on give him some space
right anybody says they're smart doesn't
get any space I think he was making a
point that he has the ability to listen
right maybe he's not the world's
greatest reader that's how I took it
yes are your books avail I'm just joking
about this guy obviously but are your
jokes of it uh looks available in audio
form yeah I read all my books oh that's
great I love that yeah I get bummed out
when someone reads a book that's a but
my friend Graham Hancock had a really
good point he's like not my fiction
books cuz he writes fiction books as
well he's like my fact-based books I
read myself but fiction I hire an actor
I'm like that's a good move nice cuz
then you got to do voices inflection and
ya know it's amazing to read them I mean
because you you really also feel like
later on down the road you connect with
with people sure you know and then
people that are hearing you right now
they have that same voice when they get
your audiobook and because I write
things that are so at the edge of
conspiratorial thinking right right
there's a certain sense of others a real
human there right this is not government
propaganda right and I can relate to
this and I can hopefully I don't wanna
say trust but I can recognize an
authenticity right yes of working with
sources when you are done with the paper
clip book and you know you've published
it and you have to live with all the
information that you had to gather and
and run through your mind did that book
was that the book did that change you
that book like was it the most altering
of this different subjects that you
covered I mean each book has a huge
impact for different reasons but when I
think of paper clip I think of this one
saying that was over the gates at
Buchenwald and it was it said Yatim das
zina
and what that means is everyone gets
what they deserve and that was horrible
and I still think about that because
it's such a piece of Nazi propaganda it
was like saying to the Jews you guys
deserve this and so I know much of my
reporting and my general just way of
being as a humanist
there's no such thing as what you
deserve right there's what there's what
happens and there's what you do there's
what you're responsible for and there's
what you can change hmm but there's that
idea is reprehensible for some reason
that really stuck with me as the was
just the worst possible thing that I
could think of because it's the
psychology behind why they did what they
yes the dehumanizing but the weird thing
is that that was less than a hundred
years ago that seems like that should
have been something that took place if
you hear about the Inquisition you go
okay well that makes people didn't know
any better back then but 1945 is not
that long ago it's just not do I mean
people people just read and read and
read about World War two for good reason
you know and everything I write starts
it all goes back to the Nazis and every
book I the the trail the paper trail at
the National Archives or individual
university libraries and people's papers
where I go they all refer back to that
because it was so remarkable that the
Nazis led in weapons technology and they
almost took over the world because of it
right and that is the premise of all of
this I mean in surprise kill vanish it's
like these are the guys on the ground in
the Pentagon's brain it's this is the
technology in the sky but we must we the
government's position whether its
Pentagon CIA is always we have to stay
ahead because the next Nazi Germany is
right around the corner yeah and that's
a that's really something to think about
is that alarmist well to this history
repeats itself I mean how if we went and
stopped and looked at all the instances
throughout history of people being evil
dictators there's quite a few and
there's you know we've we could look at
North Korea right now and that guy
assassinated his own uncle right with a
what was that with a missile coming out
of a helicopter I think put him in a
field yeah yeah I mean that's straight
up messaging yeah
right which is another thing I think is
interesting about the CIA's paramilitary
program it's all meant to remain
plausibly deniable it's supposed to be
secret like we're not supposed to be
giving out the message that we have
these teams you know that go after
high-value targets right they're just
supposed to disappear that's the
vanished part of the mmm-hmm so that and
that as someone who is really interested
in transparency and people being
educated and having information that
always puts me in conflict with you know
the government in essence because I'm
I'm like we should know but then you
think about it well the whole thing is
you were not supposed to know because
it's supposed to be just the hidden hand
the president's hidden hand they call it
well it has to be this distinction that
they have the ability to break the rules
because it's how they protect us I mean
that that's that's the rub right and the
stories we hear are often the failures
because those are the ones that get
reported in the press there is a sense
under girding this narrative which I
really like and I'm interested in and
intrigued by is that the the successful
operations you don't hear about because
they are plausibly denied right yeah
there's got to be a ton of them that
went through
you don't hear nothing about and your
kids will hear about Boeing maybe when
you think about protecting us from
something like another Nazi Germany
that's when people are willing to give
up some of the freedoms they're willing
to give up surveillance they're willing
to give up and this is this is where
things get real slippery right I mean
also when you think about Russia because
all of this Cold War science technology
operations all of that was to beat back
the Russians okay then the Russians go
away and now they're back you know the
Russians are the master assassins and
they do it through poisoning I mean look
at scre Paul right no I write it in the
book about a defector who came over in
the 50s and said I was an assassin for
the KGB
gave us all kinds of information it's
fascinating to look at those documents
and realize like this is how it works
this is how it worked you know 60 years
ago and then you kind of see echoes of
that of how it's working today and you
can only imagine the defectors or those
who come over from the other side who we
learn from and they just disappear into
Imman they disappear a sort of the CIA's
version of witness protection mm-hmm Wow
do you because of the subject matter
that you choose to write about does this
affect you as a human like are you
suspicious of everything now do you look
at everything in terms of like things
that are happening in the news to try to
look at the the hidden mechanisms behind
the scenes and I think the opposite I
believe that information gives you a
certain understanding of like the
longview right it does not make me
paranoid at all in fact the opposite
people often say like my god the world's
about to end and I say well wow you
should really read about what it was
like in 1959 or 1962 when we were really
almost at war with the Russians
thermonuclear war right that is
essentially at bay for now right so I
don't know maybe it's my personality but
I actually take comfort in the fact that
what is happening now is sort of as you
just said it's a it's a bit of a
rebranding in the modern era of what has
always been there which is rivals
seeking supremacy over one another you
know people trying to outfox the bad
guys what I think has changed is that
the desire to prevent war has shifted
and that makes me that makes me upset
because we used to sue for peace we used
to want a peaceful world I mean war was
outlawed in 1928 right and now we just
the military-industrial complex is such
that it's really a lot better for the
Defense Department to be in a state of
constant war because then you're in a
state of constant weapons production and
you can always be creating those vast
weapon systems of the future for the
next war that comes along and and that's
troubling because those eighteen year
old kids are the ones who get sent into
the line of fire what if any research
have you done on artificial intelligence
and robotics and autonomous weapons and
the the future of warfare which a lot of
people think it's going to be like what
we're seeing now in Yemen with drones
that we're gonna be seeing that with
robots on the ground and that this would
be the future huge amount for the book
that I wrote called the Pentagon's brain
mmm-hmm really impactful moment was
going to Los Alamos when I went there to
meet a DARPA scientist who was working
on an artificial brain for DARPA I mean
this stuff is way unofficial brain
trying to create a system you know a
free-thinking system and what his name
is Garrett Kenyon what he told me was
just utterly fascinating because again
that human thing I'm always after it's
like what are you doing I mean leave the
science you've had lots of guys on here
I'll talk to you about the
high-technology elements but I'm
interested in who's doing that who's
creating that science and why and he
said to me this is like like where
artificial intelligence is right now
with scientists who are really looking
into this
it's like Magellan you know like who
will discover the new world but on the
on the idea of frightening artificial
intelligence he told me an interesting
story about his daughter and he said
people seem to think like you know
facial recognition software is like
telling us that were one step away from
AI true AI and he said if if he's he was
he showed me on his iPhone this was a
couple years ago and he how much trouble
the iPhone had recognizing him like if
he put a hat on or if he made a funny
face and he said my daughter can
recognize me from across a baseball
field you know if I have a hat on just
by the way I walk right and he said if
she if she couldn't there would be
something really wrong with her in other
words her
human recognition abilities are truly
intelligent and that is a system of
systems a biological system of systems
that no scientists has you know the
algorithm for which no one has ever able
been able to figure out yet hmm
and he believes that we're far away from
that but the defense department on the
other hand is moving us in that
direction
and absolutely wants autonomous weapons
to be fighting wars look there was a
program that said I quote this in the
book it says the the battle place is no
place for humans so drones are the way
of the future right but there used to
kill people which and which also means
that the enemy is creating drones of
course
and pretty soon that's gonna be a big a
big issue yeah that's the big fear the
big fear is that they're gonna be the
first ones to implement it I mean what
scares you about AI everything DARPA
thinks AI could help troops
telepathically control machines of
course they do
and they probably can't I mean they've
already got cursors that people can move
around that are paraplegic they can move
them around with their mind in their
eyes yeah I think there's gonna be quite
a few of those things what is already I
made this thing this is called the
synapse this is a look read this thing
that's though DARPA funded program
develop electronic neuromorphic machine
technology that scales to biological
levels more simply stated it is an
attempt to build a new kind of computer
with similar form and function to the
mammalian brain such artificial brains
would be used to build robots whose
intelligence matches that of mice and
cats Jesus Christ
robot cats robot cats coming to get us
well they created something called the
the Robo rat that was the first
bio-hybrid right so a bio hybrid is when
you mix a animal and a machine and DARPA
was doing that right before 9/11 and
people freaked out they were like you
cannot put brain chips and rats and
make them move through a maze buy a you
know remote control which was what they
were doing and I interviewed the guys
who were all working on this program
before 9/11 and so the the the morality
of the of the citizenry was like no then
9/11 happened and suddenly all this
money got pumped into DARPA to do
anything they wanted the morality is she
went out the window and they started
creating all kinds of bio hybrids as I
write in the Pentagon's brain so they
put they now have pigeons that are mixed
you know animal and machine they created
something called there's a moth so
there's a man Dacus x2 moth that's what
it's called a large moth and scienter PO
scientists put brain chips into the
larvae okay so that when it cocoon dand
became a flying moth it had the the chip
built into its system making it easier
to integrate and they could fly the moth
around the lab and that was a huge step
and this is now four years ago that I
was interviewing these scientists did
you see any of this stuff I didn't see
the moth but I I told you I saw that the
the limb regeneration lab was a trip and
this is also we're going on there well
they were just cutting limbs off of
salamanders and watching the limbs grow
back right and examining that and saying
well if the salamander can do this so
can we one day and I said to them but
wait that's impossible you know and they
said well it's not actually because
humans have they broke I love scientists
who break it down into terms I can
understand it's like what Elon Musk did
you know yeah right cuz and they said to
me you were once a single cell in your
mother's womb and then you were too and
then you were you know right mmm so you
can regenerate and that's their premise
I mean these are the tops on the world's
top scientists in regeneration
what is this Jamie the moth being
stimulated by electro currents and its
abdomen
so the stimulation of the electric
currents they can cause it to go left or
right is that it yeah I just looking up
these bio-hybrid moths what was the
thing that you threw your hands on my
head like you're freaking out Macaulay
Culkin at home alone this is reading
something wet yeah I typed it was I
started typing bio-hybrid stuff and this
is the first thing that popped up was
this shrimp article yeah it says they're
gonna test them through Olympic themed
events oh my God look at this
DARPA MTO seeks innovative proposals for
the development of micro - milli insects
scale robotic technology shrimp where
develop will develop okay so shrimp is
the an acronym they love and acronyms
will develop and demonstrate through a
series of Olympic themed events
multifunctional mm 2cm scale robotic
platforms so I guess that's millimeter
or centimeter scale robotic platforms
with a focus on untethered mobility
maneuverability and dexterity to achieve
this goal shrimp will also provide
foundational research in the area of
micro actual actuator materials and
energy efficient power systems for
extremely swap the capital letter S copy
of level W lowercase a capital P
constrained microbiotic systems expected
such advances will be enabling for
applications including search and rescue
yeah right search and rescue disaster
relief yeah we're gonna help people
hazardous environment inspection or
killing motherfuckers with a with an
evil nuclear be always the ski that goes
in your mouth and blows up fuck that's
crazy I mean they do all kinds of
planning for the future
yeah the search and rescue thing is a
it's a great sort of you know way in
which to present DARPA that's doing all
this great stuff I interviewed DARPA
scientists who said look Annie we've got
we're able to send robots into Fukushima
to twist the cores you know right then
and yes that is great but that's far
from the only thing
Chinese children yeah well yeah but
here's a trip you want to hear I mean
yeah it gets there our rabbit holes
there because I sourced all these
documents and also interviewed generals
at the Pentagon who are like we don't
like AI we want like we want this we
want our guys on the ground you know we
they believe in the human the warrior
that concept and so that the generals
were very opposed with the DARPA took a
vote and it was like no AI we want
humans in the mix and so what did DARPA
start doing and they are the generals
they said why don't you why can't we go
more autonomous and the answer was we
don't trust the machines okay so right
around that same time what a DARPA start
doing it started looking into and hiring
scientists who were working with how
trust works in the brain specifically
with what is called the moral molecule
and it's this molecule in the brain that
mothers emit when they're breastfeeding
okay oxytocin yes so think about that
and I mean that's like the ultimate
going way back biology like you have to
have a mother a trusting mother to
breastfeed in you know prehistory or
otherwise you'd be eaten by you'd be
like this is a bad idea I'm stopping to
do this I'm gonna die right right
so they examined that molecule the
brains moral molecule and they began a
program to work with that to be able to
give that to soldiers so that their that
they trusted AI machines and that's
where I think you're getting into really
spooky dark multi levels of manipulation
about what humans want versus what the
Pentagon wants Wow the worry about
trusting the Machine scares the shit out
of me because that's what everyone's
worried about when it comes to AI like
that's what Elon Musk keeps warning
people about that these things are gonna
have superhuman capabilities and they're
gonna be sentient and it's a matter of
when absent so III as the journalist
said to myself we'll wait a minute if
the generals at the Pentagon and I'm you
know that's a that's a euphemism
but the meaning that the actual opera
you know the guys that are in charge
here don't want that who does want this
and where my research took me to was the
group that wants that is what's called
the defense Science Board and those are
the individuals who are counseling the
Pentagon in the manner in which they
should proceed and now those individuals
are all sitting on the boards of the
defense contractors so you can really
see how money drives the rubric the
generals don't want it the humans don't
want it but guess who does the people
who stand to make the money creating the
autonomous systems and that's exactly
what Eisenhower warned us of hmm in his
farewell speech you know the
military-industrial complex and the
other part of that speech which people
don't don't know as well is that what he
said his antidote Eisenhower said this
the antidote to the military-industrial
complex is an alert and knowledgeable
citizenry it's why I write my books
mm-hmm because an alert and
knowledgeable citizenry has the ability
to kind of push back and go but we don't
want that I think what we're worried
about is Pandora's box right with it
when it comes to AI and we're worried
that first of all if we're not the ones
to open it what if they open it all
right what if the Chinese open it now
and obviously their technology is super
super advanced I mean they're electronic
technology particular their cell phones
are cutting-edge mean Apple and all
these other companies are struggling to
try to keep up with Huawei and these 1fc
are one what is the fuckin one st what
is that one what is that big company
that they just released some they've
just hired Robert Downey jr. to they
gave him millions of dollars to on one
plus ya one plus seven they have this
new phone that doesn't have a front
facing camera you press a button it
slides out of the top they figured out a
way to make it the entire phone all
screen and they're incredibly advanced
in terms of their electronics we deeply
are concerned that they're gonna be the
ones that implement military autonomous
sentient robotics before we do
because then you can essentially you can
launch them with no physical human cost
on your side and I mean they they're
literally weapons of mass destruction if
you have robots I can go over there and
just kill people and and what they need
for that is the world's fastest
supercomputer right and what's
interesting is that we just we Americans
overtook the Chinese in having again
having the world's fastest supercomputer
but they had it for a couple years
and think about this okay cuz you were
saying hard to believe the Nazis were
only you know not even like just didn't
just in our grandfather's age right so
go back in time to then listen to this
about this really freaked me out in
terms of progress right after the war a
guy called john von neumann got a grant
from the Atomic Energy Commission to
essentially build the world's first
computer I mean they existed but he
built the first computer that could
actually do calculations okay before
that calculations were done with like by
calculators computers were humans but
there's this amazing story of von
Neumann in the basement of the Princeton
Institute for Advanced Study where he
built this computer with government
funds and he cuz he was a brilliant
polymath he could add faster than anyone
around him okay he's also the guy who
calculated at what level the atomic bomb
should explode over Hiroshima for the
most blast okay because it didn't hit
the ground it wouldn't kill as many
people's brains so this is how his mind
worked so he's faster than the computer
he has a pen and paper in front of him
and he can outperform the world's
fastest computer with his own brain two
and a half years into it in like 1949
the computer beats him and he made a
statement then that said one day
artificially intelligent machines will
be the ruin of man I mean I'm
paraphrasing that was his prediction but
that was in 1949 in the 50s Marshall
McLuhan said that we are the sex organs
of the machine world I'm gonna have to
really think about that that's a deep
one that is very deep yeah we are the
propagators we're the ones we're
progenitors yeah that's it that's our
baby we're gonna make that baby mmm and
then we're gonna die
most likely that's going to be the new
living thing who said that
marshall mcluhan yeah just that stop and
think about that figuring that out in
the 50s just looking around and going oh
we're giving birth to these things but I
have a question for you then on that
morality issue right which is if man has
always been a warring animal right why
do we look so down upon the throat you
know the knife to the throat and why do
we as a society accept drone strikes
because that's the whole question I
asked in surprise kill vanish and I'm
not sure I answered it to my own
satisfaction because it's such a
complicated question well one of them is
very personal the other one is like a
video game you know to stab someone to
look them in the eye and and shove a
knife through the ribs that's a takes a
different kind of person and we don't
think we want that person around us you
think it's a proximity issue oh it's
it's just different you know one of them
is throwing a rock at someone that's
nowhere near you the other one is
beating a guy to death when he's right
in front of you there one it's very
personal when you see someone struggling
and we don't like to think that someone
can put that aside and still twist that
blade we don't want that we don't want
that on our side we don't want our
people to be Noble and just and but
meanwhile when it comes to civilian
casualties drones are one of the worst
invention ever in human history if we
really want to examine ourselves in
terms of efficacy and the moral moral
high ground in terms of engagement like
launching missiles at apartment
buildings because you found metadata in
there that indicates that most likely an
al-qaida operative has a cell phone in
that building like that that's some shit
that people have done I mean that has
been done and the casualty rate for
civilians when it comes to drone strikes
for in
and civilians it's stunning I think it's
in the high 80%
I think that's we've done this before
right haven't we
I think it's some it's it's a disturbing
I might be conservative by saying it's
in the 80s it might be in the 90s
it's a disturbingly high number of
people who died who were not the
intended target which would which would
be an argument from all aid for the
blade
yeah the blade is you know who you're
stabbing and that that warrior is going
in there aware that he too might die
what do you got Jamie what's that face
3% 3% what that's what this says that's
worse shit now who released that maybe 3
percent accuracy no I know there was
there's been some serious discussions
amongst scholars about this that's not
true
whatever you reading that can't be right
yeah so just one operation was 3% just
to throw this out there because there is
that big debate I mean CIA paramilitary
army tiny Defense Department huge CIA
using either ground operators or drones
mm-hmm Defense Department
I read the statistic the other day 7,200
and change bombs dropped on Afghanistan
last year I mean people don't even
realize we're still seven seven thousand
they just practicing here goes president
Donald Trump revoked a requirement that
US intelligence officials publicly
report the number of civilian kills in
drone strikes other attacks on terrorist
targets outside of war zones oh so we're
gonna get shit information now but pull
up 2017 you have to fight well you got
to really look hard to get that
statistic there's an inspector general
who covers Afghanistan right for the
government he looks at all the
statistics and by the way this
administration just canceled his job so
we will no longer have that information
but he's the one that is in charge of
reporting that because it's called the
reconstruction effort right but that
number of bombs really makes you think
long and hard or at least me about you
know the big footprint versus the small
operation and I again I think this is
why most people don't want to talk about
this because it's a dark rabbit hole to
go down you know people prefer to
believe that we're just safe and sound
here and not not at risk and I mean
that's that's the endless question of
are these are these threats real and
must they be dealt with well it's very
hard for people to be a hundred percent
aware of something they're not
experiencing right and right now we're
not experiencing a war currently in our
in our neighborhoods but yet it is
happening overseas and the United States
technically is involved in these wars
and I think that right now we're not
experiencing sentient robots running
through the streets murdering people but
that could happen we're not experiencing
Nazi Germany anymore we've got past that
we'd like to assume that that's in the
past but if you just looked at the vast
amount of history that's dedicated to
atrocities that are committed by armies
against their enemies it seems like
that's just what people do
it seemed it's a part of what people do
and if there is a real technological
race in order to develop autonomous
sentient robots that are capable of
killing people we should be fucking
horrified and who are you most afraid of
China China 100% well you know they keep
they keep outperforming us in that
supercomputer they also have a total
integration of the government and their
industry you know that everything is
connected it's not like us you know like
the gut like deep like they'll play the
long game
they're strategic in their ability to
plan for things and not have them be
currently profitable they don't have to
operate on a bottom line like someone
who's beholden to stock owners and they
don't have an informed public yes at all
I mean they have Google censorship I
mean they've convinced Google to go over
there I was talking to an executive at
Google and they were saying essentially
we're willing to let them censor because
we know we're gonna they're gonna just
they're going to do what they want to do
anyway they're going to copy all
our information and just redo Google in
like we think at least this way we will
protect our interest by being over there
my do you know how crazy that sounds
you're gonna let the Chinese government
help you're gonna help them censor
people on an interesting note of that in
the mirror all my books are published in
China whoa like the darpa book they were
right on that they had that translated
into Chinese I have a copy of it it's
spooky it's like you see the Pentagon
all this Chinese writing I don't
understand a word of it except for my
own name but it's like wow they're
reading they're reading us you know
anything I mean there's anything that
makes us look bad there is an
interesting story about the Freedom of
Information Act and Iran which came to
mind with this new activity in Iran
which is that they filed a FOIA to get
all the information that that we had on
Iran and the government it went to went
very high up in the judicial system to
say we're not going to release this
information to them even though they had
the right to have it because it would
benefit them we brought the pull-up Jim
I found a couple more better information
I might have misread that it said that
something I just found showed something
like only 2% are the high target
district are the targets that's what I
mean the rest would be so the children
civilians but other combatants too there
might be other soldiers but um part of
the reason I've got to get rid of that
sorry part of the reason on why the
strikes things has changed is because
the Trump administration has carried out
way more than the Obama administration
ever did over eight years well I think
the Trump basically told the military
you know what you doing just go do it I
mean you basically let them just run the
military instead of having the same sort
of oversight that other presidents
insisted upon and the military people
like them for that and people aren't
focused are interested in drone strikes
anymore they're more interested in the
wall in watching the the battle and the
yeah the conflict and the name-calling
and the shouting it's like it's like
throwing rocks without warfare you know
China's making robots to kill us
absolutely
Oh Chinese people please be nice was to
say okay
US drone strikes fighting Isis in Iraq
concealed at least 1257 civilians
according to the Pentagon air wars
estimate the number to be as great as
7,500 here only yeah just this year yeah
they're they're doing a weird thing they
are shooting people from a remote
location with a robot that all came to
be by the way right after 9/11 I mean
whenever we get attacked it's like Pearl
Harbor you know suddenly there is a
massive swing of what civilians what the
citizenry will tolerate you and first
surprise kill vanish I interviewed I
told you lawyer John Rizzo who wrote
what was called the 17 September 17th
memorandum of notification and it gave
presidential powers to the degree which
had not been seen since you know the
worst part of the Cold War and Congress
rode off on that in fact what Rizzo told
me is the gang of eight that are in
charge of you know the intelligence
committees in Congress said is this
enough and that's where the drones
became such a big issue because the idea
of pre-emptive neutralization the idea
we're gonna take out bad guys you know
we should have taken out bin Laden and
we didn't yeah we're gonna now do that
preemptively and it's set off it's set
us on this entirely different course
which continues to this day although
it's fallen out of the news which is
let's strike someone before they strike
us and it's such an interesting chicken
or the egg because you know yes you have
civilians dying and yes you have more
terrorists being created on the other
hand you really want the Pentagon
dropping seven thousand four hundred
three hundred two hundred bombs on
Afghanistan in any given year and it
seems so detached whereas if you sent
someone over there to assassinate these
guys with a knife you would think of
that I don't want that person in my
neighborhood that person is willing to
stab somebody and what are the intent
unintended consequences of that and we
never even know you
I'll tell you an interesting story
that's not in the book which is that
Billy Walsh owed me a number of plans
that he had presented because sometimes
the operators are asked like what do you
think we should do and it doesn't mean
we do it it's just that those plans get
sent up the chain of command and then it
comes back so he said he showed me these
drawings they were gonna go kill Chavez
right this is when Bush was in power and
you know he was like teaming up with
Ahmadinejad and he was a really bad guy
you know a threat to us and so the plan
was to Halo in take the team down go
kill Chavez and vanish and the plans got
rejected they were like no way we are
not doing this according to Billy wah
well Billy wah said to me recently I
mean thank God we didn't do that can you
imagine if we had we would be blamed
right now for everything that is going
on in Venezuela it's a really
interesting point I mean who has to make
that decision I'm glad it's not me can
you imagine no yes kill this guy but
don't kill that guy that's a good idea
yeah it's intense and it's the world we
live in that we don't discuss and we
don't think about because it doesn't
affect our daily lives in terms of like
it's not something year if it's
unavoidable but I think it's super
interesting because it also comes back
to your own humaneness
right what are you making judgments
about what are you for or against and
why are you really are you really do you
do you want that opinion I mean I think
that's so interesting and important and
and and discuss it with your children
you know and let people have my favorite
expression is just as long as you don't
make me do it you know I'm pretty
tolerant of other people's opinions
about this don't force me into it no but
this stuff impacts all of us it really
does it really does are the robots gonna
be taken over your show Joe no no well
they probably could to a certain extent
I don't think robots are currently
capable of spontaneous humor right
that's the only thing saving a person
like me no there's nothing fun
drone no not yet but what is the
difference true wetware and hardware in
silicon based you know interactions like
if there's a computer that can beat the
greatest chess masters and they can't
they have it and then the greatest go
master now to which they thought was
even more complex that people just get
destroyed by these computers now like
what what makes us think that creativity
is so unique and special I think what
separates us really is our biological
instincts and that these are things that
are programmed into our DNA over
thousands of years of survival that this
is these are the things you have to
worry about this is the information we
have and act on that that's our
intuition trust you know should I trust
should I not and you take that out of
the equation really bad things could
happen yeah I warrant I worry I worried
that we're creating a thing that's going
to surpass us but I think that that's
inevitable I mean if I was a chimp and I
was worried about becoming a person I
suppose you know seems silly it's
inevitable you want to hear the scariest
AI story I know it's old right it's like
a dim the lights in front and along but
it's from like the early day and gather
round children this is like early days
of DARPA okay and this is when we were
really seriously afraid that the
Russians were gonna send you know a
hundred thermonuclear warheads at
Washington and take out the whole
country okay so DARPA sets up this
station at the top of the world to
monitor the Soviet launch so that you
know because it only takes 24 minutes
for a ICBM to get from the launch pad in
Russia to hit New York or Washington hmm
okay so we set up the station up there
and to monitor this so we would have
some kind of a jump on this okay like
we'd learn at about eight minutes my god
the you know was a radar station that
station called the B mu site or J site
it's connected to the no rad station in
Cheyenne Mountain you know the one from
the movies right okay and it's like the
first week of business and the guys that
are sitting there in the
station looking for the alert are
sitting there and they've been trained
like the alerts never go off and all of
a sudden the alerts go from one two
three four number five is endgame okay
so the information that the technicians
are getting is now one thousand Soviet
thermonuclear missiles are on their way
to Washington DC with 99.9 percent
certainty actual story okay the guy
panics but he trusts he says wait a
minute you know cuz he's supposed to now
give the launch code let's try and get
the generals on the phone I can't get
the Pentagon general in charge of no
vrat they get a Canadian guy named
general Sleeman and Sleeman you know my
god we should be launched should we
launch it's Lehman's like wait a minute
human thought he remembered that the
night before he thought he saw
Khrushchev on TV at the UN you know that
him he's famously banging issue and he
says where's Khrushchev right now they
check he's in New York City why would
the Soviets send a thousand nuclear
weapons our way while their own leaders
in New York they said I don't know sir
but the radar returns are reporting this
and they're so someone had the idea at
that beam oocyte to go outside and lo
and behold what was there a big full
moon the system was reading the moon
moving and misinterpreted it as a
thousand nuclear thermonuclear icbm is
coming cranly didn't launch so we came
that close to the end of the world I
mean and it's an astonishing story the
documents are now Declassified but is
this an actual indication of why that
element of human intervention why trust
why other information like oh I think I
saw Khrushchev on the TV last night is
so important because the Machine said
with 99.9% certainty this is happening
Yuma we must launch in retaliation true
story and he freaked me out
thank you thank you for everything thank
you for the books thank you for your
talk here with us your new book which is
surprise
skill vanish area 51 which I will read I
promise you I will read it and if people
want to get a hold of you on social
media what is your what is it as well on
you know whatever okay all right Thank
You Annie I really appreciate it thank
you so much for having me was fun thank
you
[Music]
[Applause]